docs/docs/javascript/overview/enabling-javascript-support.mdx, before:

---
    title: Enabling Javascript support
    sidebar_position: 0
---

How to enable Pants's bundled Javascript backend package.

---

:::note Example Javascript repository
See [here](https://github.com/pantsbuild/example-javascript) for examples of Pants's Javascript functionality.

:::

### Configuring the repository

Enable the experimental Javascript [backend](../../using-pants/key-concepts/backends.mdx) like this:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[GLOBAL]
...
backend_packages = [
    "pants.backend.experimental.javascript"
]
```

Pants uses [`package_json`](../../../reference/targets/package_json.mdx) targets to model a NodeJS package.
Further, [`javascript_source`](../../../reference/targets/javascript_source.mdx) and
[`javascript_tests`](../../../reference/targets/javascript_test.mdx) targets are used to know which Javascript files to
run on and to set any metadata.

You can generate these targets by running [`pants tailor ::`](../../getting-started/initial-configuration.mdx#5-generate-build-files).

```
❯ pants tailor ::
Created project/BUILD:
  - Add javascript_sources target project
  - Add javascript_tests target tests
```


### Setting up node
Pants will by default download a distribution of `node` according to the
[`nodejs` subsystem](../../../reference/subsystems/nodejs) configuration. If you wish to instead use a locally installed
 version of, for example, 18.0.0 using `nvm` and its `.nvmrc` file, the following will get you there:

```toml tab={"label": "pants.toml"}
[nodejs]
known_versions = [] # Assign this to the empty list to ensure Pants never downloads.
version = "v18.0.0"
search_path = ["<NVM_LOCAL>"]

```

```txt tab={"label": ".nvmrc"}
v18.0.0

```

### Setting up a package manager
To set a package manager project wide, do the following:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[nodejs]
package_manager = "pnpm" # or yarn, or npm.

```

you can instead opt to use the [`package.json#packageManager`](./package.mdx#package-manager) field for this setting.
Regardless of setting, pants uses the [`corepack`](https://github.com/nodejs/corepack) version distributed with the Node
version you have chosen to install and manage package managers.

Commit message:

javascript: jsconfig (tsconfig) parsing for dependency inference (#21176)
This adds support for a lot of "extensions" that bundlers allow for
javascript that regular node does not.

In particular, inference can now find:
1. "index files" by assuming that a matching "directory import" attempts
to target said file
2. "extensionless files", essentially imports that omit the
file-extensions. This has the potential to be extended to any kind of
source you want to, however this PR does not add support for additional
extensions.
3. Files that are mapped via the "paths" mapping. This had enough
analogies with subpath imports that it reuses the latter wholesale, but
is applied after the first one.

I expect there to be cases I have missed [(as microsofts extended
definition of node resolution algo is mega
complex),](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/modules/reference.html).
My hope is this implementation is _permissive_ and mostly includes false
positive errors w.r.t runtime (meaning too many dependents are
inferred).

This PR also introduces the `UnknownDependencyBehaviour` for the
`nodejs-infer` subsystem, so that users can opt into and out of warnings
and errors using this new more permissive mode.

---------

Co-authored-by: Huon Wilson <wilson.huon@gmail.com>

docs/docs/javascript/overview/enabling-javascript-support.mdx, after:

---
    title: Enabling Javascript support
    sidebar_position: 0
---

How to enable Pants's bundled Javascript backend package.

---

:::note Example Javascript repository
See [here](https://github.com/pantsbuild/example-javascript) for examples of Pants's Javascript functionality.

:::

### Configuring the repository

Enable the experimental Javascript [backend](../../using-pants/key-concepts/backends.mdx) like this:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[GLOBAL]
...
backend_packages = [
    "pants.backend.experimental.javascript"
]
```

Pants uses [`package_json`](../../../reference/targets/package_json.mdx) targets to model a NodeJS package.
Further, [`javascript_source`](../../../reference/targets/javascript_source.mdx) and
[`javascript_tests`](../../../reference/targets/javascript_test.mdx) targets are used to know which Javascript files to
run on and to set any metadata.

You can generate these targets by running [`pants tailor ::`](../../getting-started/initial-configuration.mdx#5-generate-build-files).

```
❯ pants tailor ::
Created project/BUILD:
  - Add javascript_sources target project
  - Add javascript_tests target tests
```

:::tip Improved inference and introspection for bundled projects
For [dependency inference](../../introduction/how-does-pants-work.mdx#dependency-inference), Pants reads both your
projects' `package.json` sections and additionally
supports [`jsconfig.json`](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/languages/jsconfig), if one is present.
:::

### Setting up node
Pants will by default download a distribution of `node` according to the
[`nodejs` subsystem](../../../reference/subsystems/nodejs) configuration. If you wish to instead use a locally installed
 version of, for example, 18.0.0 using `nvm` and its `.nvmrc` file, the following will get you there:

```toml tab={"label": "pants.toml"}
[nodejs]
known_versions = [] # Assign this to the empty list to ensure Pants never downloads.
version = "v18.0.0"
search_path = ["<NVM_LOCAL>"]

```

```txt tab={"label": ".nvmrc"}
v18.0.0

```

### Setting up a package manager
To set a package manager project wide, do the following:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[nodejs]
package_manager = "pnpm" # or yarn, or npm.

```

you can instead opt to use the [`package.json#packageManager`](./package.mdx#package-manager) field for this setting.
Regardless of setting, pants uses the [`corepack`](https://github.com/nodejs/corepack) version distributed with the Node
version you have chosen to install and manage package managers.
