docs/docs/terraform/index.mdx, before:

---
    title: Terraform Overview
    sidebar_position: 999
---

---

:::caution Terraform support is in alpha stage
Pants is currently building support for developing and deploying Terraform. Simple use cases might be supported, but many options are missing.

Please share feedback for what you need to use Pants with your Terraform modules and deployments by either [opening a GitHub issue](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/new/choose) or [joining our Slack](/community/getting-help)!
:::

## Initial setup

First, activate the relevant backend in `pants.toml`:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[GLOBAL]
backend_packages = [
  ...
  "pants.backend.experimental.terraform",
  ...
]
```

The Terraform backend also needs Python to run Pants's analysers. The setting `[python].interpreter_constraints` will need to be set.

Terraform needs git to download modules. Many providers and provisioners need additional binaries to be available on the PATH. Currently, you can forward your PATH by adding `"PATH"` to `[download-terraform].extra_env_vars` in `pants.toml`, like:
```toml pants.toml
[download-terraform]
extra_env_vars = [
  "PATH"
]
```

### Adding Terraform targets

The Terraform backend has 2 target types:

- `terraform_module` for Terraform source code
- `terraform_deployment` for deployments that can be deployed with the `experimental-deploy` goal

#### Modules

The `tailor` goal will automatically generate `terraform_module`, `terraform_backend`, and `terraform_var_files` targets. Run [`pants tailor ::`](../getting-started/initial-configuration.mdx#5-generate-build-files). For example:

```
❯ pants tailor ::
Created src/terraform/root/BUILD:
  - Add terraform_module target root
```

> 🚧 `terraform_module`s must be defined in a BUILD file in the same directory as the module sources
>
> Terraform only uses files in a single directory. The Pants Terraform plugin uses the directory of the BUILD file for this.

#### Deployments

`terraform_deployment`s must be manually created. The deployment points to a `terraform_module` target as its `root_module` field. This module will be the "root" module that Terraform operations will be run on. Identify backend configs with a `terraform_backend` target, and var files with a `terraform_var_files` target. Pants will automatically use `terraform_backend`s and `terraform_var_files` in the same directory as a `terraform_deployment`.

```
terraform_module(name="root")
terraform_deployment(name="prod", root_module=":root")
terraform_backend(name="tfbackend", source="main.tfbackend")
terraform_var_files(name="tfvars")
```

You can override this behaviour by explicitly specifying these in the `dependencies` field.

```
terraform_module(name="root")
terraform_backend(name="prod_backend", source="prod.tfbackend")
terraform_deployment(name="prod", root_module=":root", dependencies=["prod_backend"])
terraform_backend(name="test_backend", source="test.tfbackend")
terraform_deployment(name="test", root_module=":root", dependencies=["test_backend"])
```

#### Lockfiles

Lockfiles will be loaded from the directory of the root module of a deployment, just like with the `terraform` command.

``` prod/BUILD
terraform_deployment(name="prod", root_module="//tf:infrastructure")
```

``` tf/BUILD
terraform_module(name="infrastructure")
```

``` tf/main.tf
resource "null_resource" "dep" {}
```

``` tf/.terraform.lock.hcl
# This file is maintained automatically by "terraform init".
# Manual edits may be lost in future updates.

provider "registry.terraform.io/hashicorp/null" {
  version = "3.2.2"
  hashes = [
    "h1:zT1ZbegaAYHwQa+QwIFugArWikRJI9dqohj8xb0GY88=",
    "zh:3248aae6a2198f3ec8394218d05bd5e42be59f43a3a7c0b71c66ec0df08b69e7",
    "zh:32b1aaa1c3013d33c245493f4a65465eab9436b454d250102729321a44c8ab9a",
    "zh:38eff7e470acb48f66380a73a5c7cdd76cc9b9c9ba9a7249c7991488abe22fe3",
    "zh:4c2f1faee67af104f5f9e711c4574ff4d298afaa8a420680b0cb55d7bbc65606",
    "zh:544b33b757c0b954dbb87db83a5ad921edd61f02f1dc86c6186a5ea86465b546",
    "zh:696cf785090e1e8cf1587499516b0494f47413b43cb99877ad97f5d0de3dc539",
    "zh:6e301f34757b5d265ae44467d95306d61bef5e41930be1365f5a8dcf80f59452",
    "zh:78d5eefdd9e494defcb3c68d282b8f96630502cac21d1ea161f53cfe9bb483b3",
    "zh:913a929070c819e59e94bb37a2a253c228f83921136ff4a7aa1a178c7cce5422",
    "zh:aa9015926cd152425dbf86d1abdbc74bfe0e1ba3d26b3db35051d7b9ca9f72ae",
    "zh:bb04798b016e1e1d49bcc76d62c53b56c88c63d6f2dfe38821afef17c416a0e1",
    "zh:c23084e1b23577de22603cff752e59128d83cfecc2e6819edadd8cf7a10af11e",
  ]
}
```

Pants can generate and update lockfiles with the `generate-lockfiles` command. Use the target of the `terraform_module`'s address as the resolve name. For example, `pants generate-lockfiles --resolve=tf:infrastructure`.

### Basic Operations

#### Formatting

Run `terraform fmt` as part of the `fix`, `fmt`, or `lint` goals.

```
pants fix ::
[INFO] Completed: pants.backend.terraform.lint.tffmt.tffmt.tffmt_fmt - terraform-fmt made no changes.

✓ terraform-fmt made no changes.
```

#### Validate

Run `terraform validate` as part of the `check` goal.

```
pants check ::
[INFO] Completed: pants.backend.terraform.goals.check.terraform_check - terraform-validate succeeded.
Success! The configuration is valid.

✓ terraform-validate succeeded.

```

`terraform validate` isn't valid for all Terraform modules. Some child modules, in particular those using aliased providers, need to have their providers provided by a "root" module. You can opt these modules out of `validate` by setting `skip_terraform_validate=True`. For example:

```
terraform_module(skip_terraform_validate=True)
```

#### Deploying

:::caution Terraform deployment support is in alpha stage
Many options and features aren't supported yet.
For the local state backend, use an absolute path.
:::

Run `terraform apply` as part of the `experimental-deploy` goal. The process is run interactively, so you will be prompted for variables and confirmation as usual.

```
pants experimental-deploy ::
[INFO] Deploying targets...
--- 8< ---
Do you want to perform these actions?
  Terraform will perform the actions described above.
  Only 'yes' will be accepted to approve.

  Enter a value: yes
--- 8< ---
Apply complete! Resources: 4 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.

✓ testprojects/src/terraform/root:root deployed
```

You can set auto approve by adding `-auto-approve` to the `[download-terraform].args` setting in `pants.toml`. You can also set it for a single pants invocation with `--download-terraform-args='-auto-approve'`, for example `pants experimental-deploy "--download-terraform-args='-auto-approve'"`.

To run `terraform plan`, use the `--dry-run` flag of the `experimental-deploy` goal.

```
pants experimental-deploy --dry-run ::
```

Commit message:

Add targets for terraform lockfiles (#21099)
Terraform lockfiles were magically pulled in with a pathglob. This meant
that `--changed-since` had no visibility on changes in the lockfile.
This MR adds a synthetic target for terraform lockfiles, wires it into
dep inference, and uses its Sources to pull it in.

The key reason to use a synthetic target instead of a normal target with
tailor is that the lockfile _must_ be called `.terraform.lock.hcl` and
must be in the same directory as the root module of a Terraform
deployment. So any such file _must_ be a Terraform lockfile, and no
other file _can_ be.

closes #14790

docs/docs/terraform/index.mdx, after:

---
    title: Terraform Overview
    sidebar_position: 999
---

---

:::caution Terraform support is in alpha stage
Pants is currently building support for developing and deploying Terraform. Simple use cases might be supported, but many options are missing.

Please share feedback for what you need to use Pants with your Terraform modules and deployments by either [opening a GitHub issue](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/new/choose) or [joining our Slack](/community/getting-help)!
:::

## Initial setup

First, activate the relevant backend in `pants.toml`:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[GLOBAL]
backend_packages = [
  ...
  "pants.backend.experimental.terraform",
  ...
]
```

The Terraform backend also needs Python to run Pants's analysers. The setting `[python].interpreter_constraints` will need to be set.

Terraform needs git to download modules. Many providers and provisioners need additional binaries to be available on the PATH. Currently, you can forward your PATH by adding `"PATH"` to `[download-terraform].extra_env_vars` in `pants.toml`, like:
```toml pants.toml
[download-terraform]
extra_env_vars = [
  "PATH"
]
```

### Adding Terraform targets

The Terraform backend has 5 target types:

- `terraform_module` for Terraform source code
- `terraform_deployment` for deployments that can be deployed with the `experimental-deploy` goal
- `terraform_backend` for backend configuration files (typically ending in `.tfbackend`)
- `terraform_var_files` for files to pass with `-var-file`
- `_terraform_lockfile` autogenerated target for lockfiles.

#### Modules

The `tailor` goal will automatically generate `terraform_module`, `terraform_backend`, and `terraform_var_files` targets. Run [`pants tailor ::`](../getting-started/initial-configuration.mdx#5-generate-build-files). For example:

```
❯ pants tailor ::
Created src/terraform/root/BUILD:
  - Add terraform_module target root
```

> 🚧 `terraform_module`s must be defined in a BUILD file in the same directory as the module sources
>
> Terraform only uses files in a single directory. The Pants Terraform plugin uses the directory of the BUILD file for this.

#### Deployments

`terraform_deployment`s must be manually created. The deployment points to a `terraform_module` target as its `root_module` field. This module will be the "root" module that Terraform operations will be run on. Identify backend configs with a `terraform_backend` target, and var files with a `terraform_var_files` target. Pants will automatically use `terraform_backend`s and `terraform_var_files` in the same directory as a `terraform_deployment`.

```
terraform_module(name="root")
terraform_deployment(name="prod", root_module=":root")
terraform_backend(name="tfbackend", source="main.tfbackend")
terraform_var_files(name="tfvars")
```

You can override this behaviour by explicitly specifying these in the `dependencies` field.

```
terraform_module(name="root")
terraform_backend(name="prod_backend", source="prod.tfbackend")
terraform_deployment(name="prod", root_module=":root", dependencies=["prod_backend"])
terraform_backend(name="test_backend", source="test.tfbackend")
terraform_deployment(name="test", root_module=":root", dependencies=["test_backend"])
```

#### Lockfiles

Lockfiles will be loaded from the directory of the root module of a deployment, just like with the `terraform` command. Pants will automatically generate targets for them if they exist.

```python tab={"label":"prod/BUILD"}
terraform_deployment(name="prod", root_module="//tf:infrastructure")
```

```python tab={"label":"tf/BUILD"}
terraform_module(name="infrastructure")
```

```python tab={"label":"tf/main.tf"}
resource "null_resource" "dep" {}
```

```hcl tab={"label":"tf/.terraform.lock.hcl"}
# This file is maintained automatically by "terraform init".
# Manual edits may be lost in future updates.

provider "registry.terraform.io/hashicorp/null" {
  version = "3.2.2"
  hashes = [
    "h1:zT1ZbegaAYHwQa+QwIFugArWikRJI9dqohj8xb0GY88=",
    "zh:3248aae6a2198f3ec8394218d05bd5e42be59f43a3a7c0b71c66ec0df08b69e7",
    "zh:32b1aaa1c3013d33c245493f4a65465eab9436b454d250102729321a44c8ab9a",
    "zh:38eff7e470acb48f66380a73a5c7cdd76cc9b9c9ba9a7249c7991488abe22fe3",
    "zh:4c2f1faee67af104f5f9e711c4574ff4d298afaa8a420680b0cb55d7bbc65606",
    "zh:544b33b757c0b954dbb87db83a5ad921edd61f02f1dc86c6186a5ea86465b546",
    "zh:696cf785090e1e8cf1587499516b0494f47413b43cb99877ad97f5d0de3dc539",
    "zh:6e301f34757b5d265ae44467d95306d61bef5e41930be1365f5a8dcf80f59452",
    "zh:78d5eefdd9e494defcb3c68d282b8f96630502cac21d1ea161f53cfe9bb483b3",
    "zh:913a929070c819e59e94bb37a2a253c228f83921136ff4a7aa1a178c7cce5422",
    "zh:aa9015926cd152425dbf86d1abdbc74bfe0e1ba3d26b3db35051d7b9ca9f72ae",
    "zh:bb04798b016e1e1d49bcc76d62c53b56c88c63d6f2dfe38821afef17c416a0e1",
    "zh:c23084e1b23577de22603cff752e59128d83cfecc2e6819edadd8cf7a10af11e",
  ]
}
```

Pants can generate and update lockfiles with the `generate-lockfiles` command. Use the target of the `terraform_module`'s address as the resolve name. For example, `pants generate-lockfiles --resolve=tf:infrastructure`.

### Basic Operations

#### Formatting

Run `terraform fmt` as part of the `fix`, `fmt`, or `lint` goals.

```
pants fix ::
[INFO] Completed: pants.backend.terraform.lint.tffmt.tffmt.tffmt_fmt - terraform-fmt made no changes.

✓ terraform-fmt made no changes.
```

#### Validate

Run `terraform validate` as part of the `check` goal.

```
pants check ::
[INFO] Completed: pants.backend.terraform.goals.check.terraform_check - terraform-validate succeeded.
Success! The configuration is valid.

✓ terraform-validate succeeded.

```

`terraform validate` isn't valid for all Terraform modules. Some child modules, in particular those using aliased providers, need to have their providers provided by a "root" module. You can opt these modules out of `validate` by setting `skip_terraform_validate=True`. For example:

```
terraform_module(skip_terraform_validate=True)
```

#### Deploying

:::caution Terraform deployment support is in alpha stage
Many options and features aren't supported yet.
For the local state backend, use an absolute path.
:::

Run `terraform apply` as part of the `experimental-deploy` goal. The process is run interactively, so you will be prompted for variables and confirmation as usual.

```
pants experimental-deploy ::
[INFO] Deploying targets...
--- 8< ---
Do you want to perform these actions?
  Terraform will perform the actions described above.
  Only 'yes' will be accepted to approve.

  Enter a value: yes
--- 8< ---
Apply complete! Resources: 4 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.

✓ testprojects/src/terraform/root:root deployed
```

You can set auto approve by adding `-auto-approve` to the `[download-terraform].args` setting in `pants.toml`. You can also set it for a single pants invocation with `--download-terraform-args='-auto-approve'`, for example `pants experimental-deploy "--download-terraform-args='-auto-approve'"`.

To run `terraform plan`, use the `--dry-run` flag of the `experimental-deploy` goal.

```
pants experimental-deploy --dry-run ::
```
