1.1.x Stable Releases
=====================

This document describes releases leading up to the ``1.1.x`` ``stable`` series.

1.1.0 (08/26/2016)
------------------

1.1.0 Release

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Fix a non-determinism I added in the ANTLR support
  `RB #4187 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4187>`_

* Performance fix for consolidated classpath
  `RB #4184 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4184>`_

* Adjust the output file locations for the Antlr task.
  `RB #4161 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4161>`_

* Refactor classpath consolidation into a separate task.
  `RB #4152 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4152>`_

* Simplify `ConcurrentRunnerScheduler` & cleanup.
  `RB #4091 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4091>`_

1.1.0-rc9 (07/22/2016)
----------------------

Third release candidate for release 1.1.0. Remove bad
deprecation warning.

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Fix JUnit -fail-fast, add test for early exit hook and remove unused code
  `RB #4060 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4060>`_
  `RB #4081 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4081>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Update junit-runner to version 1.0.13
  `RB #4102 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4102>`_
  `RB #4101 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4101>`_
  `RB #4091 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4091>`_
  `RB #4081 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4081>`_
  `RB #4107 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4107>`_

* Enable autoFlush for JUnit printstream so we get output as the tests run
  `RB #4101 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4101>`_
  `RB #4102 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4102>`_

* Buffer the ConsoleRunner's use of stdio.
  `RB #4101 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4101>`_

* [1.1.x\] Clean up export deprecation warning on 1.1.x branch
  `RB #4110 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4110>`_

* Print a message for cycles in the graph when computing the target fingerprint
  `RB #4087 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4087>`_

1.1.0-rc8 (07/15/2016)
----------------------

Second release candidate for release 1.1.0.  The version number
has been bumped to avoid naming conflicts with pre releases.

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Improve deprecation warning for default backend option reliance.
  `RB #4061 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4061>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* [bugfix] Fix `remote_sources()` targets dependency injection.
  `RB #4052 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4052>`_

* Fix problems with unicode in junit XML output when writing to HTML report
  `RB #4051 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4051>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Bump Junit Runner to 1.0.12
  `RB #4072 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4072>`_

* Log exceptions from testRunFinished() in our listener
  `Issue #3638 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/3638>`_
  `RB #4060 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4060>`_

* Bump junit-runner to 1.0.11
  `RB #4026 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4026>`_
  `RB #4047 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4047>`_

1.1.0-rc0 (7/1/2016)
--------------------

This is the first `1.1.0-rc` release on the way to `1.1.0`.

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Subprocess clean-all
  `RB #4011 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4011>`_

* expose products for jvm bundle create and python binary create tasks
  `RB #3959 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3959>`_
  `RB #4015 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4015>`_

* Implement zinc `unused deps` check
  `RB #3635 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3635>`_

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Add `is_target_root` in export
  `RB #4030 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4030>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* ConsoleRunner bugfix for @TestSerial and other test cleanups
  `RB #4026 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4026>`_

New Engine Work
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* [engine] Proper implementation of `**` globs in the v2 engine
  `RB #4034 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4034>`_

* [engine] Fix TargetMacro replacements of adapted aliases
  `Issue #3560 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/3560>`_
  `Issue #3561 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/3561>`_
  `RB #4000 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4000>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Fix dead apidocs link for guava.
  `RB #4037 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4037>`_

* Bump setproctitle to 1.1.10.
  `Issue #44 <https://github.com/dvarrazzo/py-setproctitle/issues/44>`_
  `RB #4035 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4035>`_

* Set a default read timeout for fetching node pre-installed modules. 1 second default often fails
  `RB #4025 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4025>`_

* Improve stderr handling for ProcessManager.get_subprocess_output().
  `RB #4019 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4019>`_

* Add AnnotatedParallelClassesAndMethodsTest* and AnnotatedParallelMethodsTest*
  `RB #4027 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4027>`_

1.1.0-pre6 (06/24/2016)
-----------------------

This is the seventh `1.1.0-pre` release on the way to the `1.1.0` stable branch.
It bumps the version of the JUnit runner and is highlighted by a new hybrid engine.

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Create a hybrid optionally async engine.
  `RB #3897 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3897>`_

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~
* Ability to filter list options.
  `RB #3997 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3997>`_

* Add an :API: public exception for abstract members.
  `RB #3968 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3968>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~
* When source fields are strings, not collections, raise an error; Test deferred sources addresses error
  `RB #3970 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3970>`_

* Report JUnit tests with failing assumptions as skipped tests
  `RB #4010 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4010>`_

New Engine Work
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* [engine] refine exception output
  `RB #3992 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3992>`_

* [engine] Fix imports of classes that moved from fs to project_tree
  `RB #4005 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4005>`_

* [engine] Use scandir, and preserve symlink paths in output
  `RB #3991 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3991>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Use junit-runner-1.0.10
  `RB #4010 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4010>`_
  `RB #4020 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4020>`_

* A `remote_sources` target as a better mechanism for from_target.
  `RB #3830 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3830>`_
  `RB #4014 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4014>`_

* dep-usage: output aliases information
  `RB #3984 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3984>`_

* Improve `PantsRunnerTest` setup error message.
  `RB #4038 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4038>`_

1.1.0-pre5 (06/10/2016)
-----------------------

This is the sixth `1.1.0-pre` release on the way to the `1.1.0` stable branch.

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~
* Remove docgen from list of default packages, don't deprecate the --default-backend-packages option.
  `RB #3972 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3972>`_
  `RB #3988 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3988>`_

* Delete the spindle-plugin from contrib.
  `RB #3990 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3990>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~
* Fix warnings about AliasTarget not having a BUILD alias.
  `RB #3993 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3993>`_

* Make checkstyle's options filename-agnostic.
  `Issue #3555 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/3555>`_
  `RB #3975 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3975>`_

New Engine Work
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* [engine] Capture the `resources=globs` argument for Python targets
  `Issue #3506 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/3506>`_
  `RB #3979 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3979>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Use the z.jar files on the zinc classpath instead of the destination directory of the class files.
  `RB #3955 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3955>`_
  `RB #3982 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3982>`_

* logs kill server info when creating server
  `RB #3983 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3983>`_

* Add format to mustache filenames
  `RB #3976 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3976>`_

* Support for transitioning to making all backends opt-in.
  `RB #3972 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3972>`_

* dep-usage: create edge only for those direct or transitive dependencies.
  `RB #3978 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3978>`_

1.1.0-pre4 (06/03/2016)
-----------------------

This is the fifth `1.1.0-pre` release on the way to the `1.1.0` stable branch

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Introducing target aliases in BUILD files.
  `RB #3939 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3939>`_

* Add JUnit HTML report to the JUnit runner
  `RB #3958 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3958>`_

* Add FindBugs plugin to released plugins
  `RB #3909 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3909>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~
* Fix an issue introduced in go resolve refactoring
  `RB #3963 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3963>`_

* Fix unicode string on stdout causing taskerror
  `RB #3944 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3944>`_

New Engine Work
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* [engine] Don't compute a cache key for things we aren't going to cache
  `RB #3971 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3971>`_

* [engine] Repair scope binding issue in BUILD parsing.
  `RB #3969 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3969>`_

* [engine] Fix support for TargetMacros in the new parser, and support default names
  `RB #3966 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3966>`_

* [engine] Make `follow_links` kwarg to globs non-fatal.
  `RB #3964 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3964>`_

* [engine] Directly use entries while scheduling
  `RB #3953 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3953>`_

* [engine] Optionally inline inlineable Nodes
  `RB #3931 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3931>`_

* [engine] skip hanging multiprocess engine tests
  `RB #3940 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3940>`_
  `RB #3941 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3941>`_

* [engine] clean up non in-memory storage usage, only needed for LocalMultiprocessEngine
  `RB #3940 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3940>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Update jdk paths reference in jvm_projects documentation
  `RB #3942 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3942>`_

* Make `JvmAppAdaptor` compatible with bare `bundle()` form.
  `RB #3965 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3965>`_

* Update junit-runner to version 1.0.9 and test new experimental runner logic
  `RB #3925 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3925>`_

* Make BaseGlobs.from_sources_field() work for sets and strings.
  `RB #3961 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3961>`_

* Advance JVM bundle options, and enable them in jvm_app target as well
  `RB #3910 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3910>`_

* Rename PARALLEL_BOTH to PARALLEL_CLASSES_AND_METHODS inside JUnit Runner
  `RB #3925 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3925>`_
  `RB #3962 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3962>`_

* Resolve backends before plugins
  `RB #3909 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3909>`_
  `RB #3950 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3950>`_

* Update contributors.sh script not to count publish commits
  `RB #3946 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3946>`_

* Don't fail running virtualenv inside of a git hook
  `RB #3945 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3945>`_

* Prepare 1.0.1
  `RB #3960 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3960>`_

* During releases, only publish the docsite from master
  `RB #3956 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3956>`_

* Decode Watchman file event filenames to UTF-8.
  `RB #3951 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3951>`_

* Bump pex requirement to 1.1.10.
  `Issue #265 <https://github.com/pex-tool/pex/issues/265>`_
  `RB #3949 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3949>`_

* Refactor and simplify go fetcher code.
  `Issue #3439 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/3439>`_
  `Issue #3427 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/3427>`_
  `Issue #2018 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/2018>`_
  `RB #3902 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3902>`_

1.1.0-pre3 (05/27/2016)
-----------------------

This is the fourth `1.1.0-pre` release on the way to the `1.1.0` stable branch

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Fix hardcoded pants ignore from 'dist/' to '/rel_distdir/'. Use pants_ignore: +[...] in pants.ini
  `RB #3927 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3927>`_

New Engine Work
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Robustify pantsd + watchman integration tests.
  `RB #3912 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3912>`_

* Add an `--enable-engine` flag to leverage the v2 engine-backed LegacyBuildGraph without pantsd.
  `RB #3932 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3932>`_

* Adds in the experimental test runner
  `RB #3921 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3921>`_

* Flush out some bugs with the 'parallel methods' running in the legacy runner.
  `RB #3922 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3922>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Adding a special '$JAVA_HOME' symbol for use in jvm platforms args.
  `RB #3924 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3924>`_

* Defaulting to Node 6.2.0
  `Issue #3478 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/3478>`_
  `RB #3918 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3918>`_

* Add documentation on deploy_jar_rules for Maven experts
  `RB #3937 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3937>`_

* Bump pex requirement to pex==1.1.9.
  `RB #3935 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3935>`_

1.1.0-pre2 (05/21/2016)
-----------------------

This is the third `1.1.0-pre` release on the way to the `1.1.0` stable branch.

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Deprecate ambiguous options scope name components.
  `RB #3893 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3893>`_

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Make NodeTest task use the TestRunnerTaskMixin to support timeouts
  `Issue #3453 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/3453>`_
  `RB #3870 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3870>`_

* Support Scrooge generation of additional languages.
  `RB #3823 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3823>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Adding product dependency for NodeResolve/NodeTest
  `RB #3870 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3870>`_
  `RB #3906 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3906>`_

* Make pinger.py work with both HTTP and HTTPS.
  `RB #3904 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3904>`_

* Fix the release script to include `pre` releases in the version match
  `RB #3903 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3903>`_

* Fix UnicodeDecodeError in pailgun when unicode is present in environment.
  `RB #3915 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3915>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Split release notes by release branch
  `RB #3890 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3890>`_
  `RB #3907 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3907>`_

* Update the release strategy docs
  `RB #3890 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3890>`_

* Bump junit-runner to 1.0.7 to pick up previous changes
  `RB #3908 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3908>`_

* junit-runner: Separate out parsing specs from making list of requests
  `RB #3846 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3846>`_

* New Google Analytics tracking code for www.pantsbuild.org.
  `RB #3917 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3917>`_

New Engine Work
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* [engine] yield only addresses associated with target specs, so `list` goal will work
  `RB #3873 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3873>`_


1.1.0-pre1 (05/17/2016)
-----------------------

This is the second `1.1.0-pre` release on the way to the `1.1.0` stable branch.

It adds support for JDK8 javac plugins to the core, adds a Java FindBugs module to contrib, and
improves the convenience of `dict` typed options.

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Add 'transitive' and 'scope' attributes to export of target
  `RB #3845 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3845>`_

* Remove deprecated check_published_deps goal
  `RB #3893 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3893>`_
  `RB #3894 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3894>`_

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Allow updating dict option values instead of replacing them.
  `RB #3896 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3896>`_

* Add FindBugs plugin to contrib
  `RB #3847 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3847>`_

* Implement options scope name deprecation.
  `RB #3884 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3884>`_

* Find custom jar manifests in added directories.
  `RB #3886 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3886>`_

* Support for javac plugins.
  `RB #3839 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3839>`_

* Making the permissions of the local artifact cache configurable.
  `RB #3869 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3869>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Fix GoFetch and test.
  `RB #3888 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3888>`_

* Fix SourceRoots.all_roots to respect fixed roots.
  `RB #3881 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3881>`_

* Skip test_pantsd_run_with_watchman on OSX.
  `RB #3874 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3874>`_

* PrepCommandIntegration handles parallel runs.
  `RB #3864 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3864>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Link the Go doc to the site toc.
  `RB #3891 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3891>`_

* Make pants a good example of Go contrib usage.
  `RB #3889 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3889>`_

* Add a command line option for meta tag resolution
  `RB #3882 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3882>`_

* Add a note about fixing PANTS_VERSION mismatch.
  `RB #3887 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3887>`_

* Add a Go Plugin README.
  `RB #3866 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3866>`_

* Add the start of a Jenkins runbook.
  `RB #3871 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3871>`_

* Update packer docs to include canary process.
  `RB #3862 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3862>`_

* Move thrift language/rpc validation to codegen implementations
  `RB #3823 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3823>`_
  `RB #3876 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3876>`_

* Enhance options scope deprecation test.
  `RB #3901 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3901>`_

New Engine Work
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* [engine] Use the appropriate `BaseGlobs` subclass for excludes
  `RB #3875 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3875>`_

* [engine] Avoid indexing on LegacyBuildGraph.reset().
  `RB #3868 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3868>`_

* [engine] Add a pantsd.ini for development use of the daemon + watchman + buildgraph caching.
  `RB #3859 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3859>`_

* [engine] Fix bundle handling
  `RB #3860 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3860>`_


1.1.0-pre0 (05/09/2016)
-----------------------

The **1.1.0-preN** releases start here.

Pants is building to the **1.1.0** release candidates and is **N** releases towards that milestone.

This release has several changes to tooling, lots of documentation updates, and some minor api changes.


API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Add 'transitive' and 'scope' attributes to export of target
  `RB #3582 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3582>`_
  `RB #3845 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3845>`_

* Add Support for "exclude" to globs in BUILD files
  `RB #3828 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3828>`_

* Add support for pants-ignore to ProjectTree
  `RB #3698 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3698>`_

* New -default-concurrency parameter to junit-runner
  `RB #3707 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3707>`_
  `RB #3753 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3753>`_

* Make :API: public types useable.
  `RB #3752 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3752>`_

* Add public API markers to targets and base tasks used by plugins.
  `RB #3746 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3746>`_

* De-publicize a FAPP private method.
  `RB #3750 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3750>`_


New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Introduce `idea-plugin` goal to invoke intellij pants plugin via CLI
  `Issue #58 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/intellij-pants-plugin/issues/58>`_
  `RB #3664 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3664>`_

* Enhance parallel testing junit_tests
  `Issue #3209 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/3209>`_
  `RB #3707 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3707>`_


Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Use `JarBuilder` to build jars.
  `RB #3851 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3851>`_

* Ensure `DistributionLocator` is `_reset` after tests.
  `RB #3832 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3832>`_

* Handle values for list options that end with quotes
  `RB #3813 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3813>`_

* Addresses should not equal things that are not addresses.
  `RB #3791 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3791>`_

* Add transitive dep required by javac 8.
  `RB #3808 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3808>`_

* Fix distribution tests in the face of many javas.
  `RB #3778 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3778>`_

* Fixup `PEP8Error` to carry lines.
  `RB #3647 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3647>`_
  `RB #3806 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3806>`_

* Use NailgunTask's Java distribution consistently.
  `RB #3793 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3793>`_

* The thrift dep is indirect but required under JDK8.
  `RB #3787 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3787>`_

* Fix relative path in publish script.
  `RB #3789 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3789>`_

* Remove a failing test for deleted functionality.
  `RB #3783 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3783>`_

* Fixup `PythonChrootTest.test_thrift_issues_2005`.
  `RB #3774 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3774>`_

* Fix JDK 8 javadoc errors.
  `RB #3773 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3773>`_

* Fix `DIST_ROOT` trample in `test_distribution.py`.
  `RB #3747 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3747>`_

* Skip flaky pytest timeout failure ITs.
  `RB #3748 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3748>`_


Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Convert from JNLP to ssh.
  `RB #3855 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3855>`_

* Skip test_pantsd_run_with_watchman on Linux.
  `RB #3853 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3853>`_

* Fixup jenkins-slave-connect.service pre-reqs.
  `RB #3849 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3849>`_

* Expose JENKINS_LABELS to slaves.
  `RB #3844 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3844>`_

* Move node info to a script.
  `RB #3842 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3842>`_

* Retry git operations up to 2 times.
  `RB #3841 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3841>`_

* Add instance debug data to shard output.
  `RB #3837 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3837>`_

* Improve `jenkins-slave-connect.service` robustness.
  `RB #3836 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3836>`_

* Use `env` and `pwd()` to get rid of $ escaping.
  `RB #3835 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3835>`_

* Improve the packer docs.
  `RB #3834 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3834>`_

* Isolate Jenkins CI ivy caches.
  `RB #3829 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3829>`_

* Comment on release concurrency in the docs
  `RB #3827 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3827>`_

* Update plugin doc.
  `RB #3811 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3811>`_

* Use packer to create the jenkins linux slave AMI.
  `RB #3825 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3825>`_

* Upgrade cloc to 1.66.
  `RB #3820 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3820>`_

* Add an explicit legal exception to deprecation policy
  `RB #3809 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3809>`_

* Add a Jenkins2.0 CI configuration.
  `RB #3799 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3799>`_

* Scrooge gen: Cache resolved scrooge deps
  `RB #3790 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3790>`_

* Front Page update
  `RB #3807 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3807>`_

* remove 'staging' url from 1.0 release

* Fix various hardwired links to point to www.pantsbuild.org.
  `RB #3805 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3805>`_

* Push the docsite to benjyw.github.io as well as pantsbuild.github.io.
  `RB #3802 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3802>`_

* Add -L to allow curl to redirect in case we decide to move website later
  `RB #3804 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3804>`_

* Merge back in some content from the options page
  `RB #3767 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3767>`_
  `RB #3795 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3795>`_

* Update the community page
  `RB #3801 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3801>`_

* Updates for documentation followon from Radical site redesign
  `RB #3794 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3794>`_

* Use a set for the contains check in topo order path for invalidation
  `RB #3786 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3786>`_

* Rework ScalaPlatform.
  `RB #3779 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3779>`_

* Pants 1.0 Release announcement
  `RB #3781 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3781>`_

* Revisit the 'Why Use Pants' doc
  `RB #3788 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3788>`_

* Move src/python/pants/docs to src/docs.
  `RB #3782 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3782>`_

* Adding managed_jar_dependencies docs to 3rdparty_jvm.md.
  `RB #3776 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3776>`_

* Radical makeover of docsite.
  `RB #3767 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3767>`_

* Add changelog items from 1.0.x branch
  `RB #3772 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3772>`_

* Upgrade to pex 1.1.6.
  `RB #3768 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3768>`_

* convert RequestException into a more standard NonfatalArtifactCacheError
  `RB #3754 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3754>`_

* [docs] Remove setup difficulty caveat, and highlight install script
  `RB #3764 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3764>`_

* add JUnit XML tests for a TestSuite and a Parameterized Test
  `RB #3758 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3758>`_

* Adding Grapeshot to the Powered by page, approved by Katie Lucas of Grapeshot
  `RB #3760 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3760>`_

* Upgrade default go from 1.6.1 to 1.6.2.
  `RB #3755 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3755>`_

* Upgrade to pex 1.1.5.
  `RB #3743 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3743>`_


New Engine Work
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* [engine] Don't cycle-detect into completed Nodes
  `RB #3848 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3848>`_

* Migrate `pants.engine.exp` to `pants.engine.v2`.
  `RB #3798 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3798>`_
  `RB #3800 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3800>`_

* [pantsd] Build graph caching via v2 engine integration.
  `RB #3798 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3798>`_

* [engine] Walk references in the ProductGraph
  `RB #3803 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3803>`_

* [engine] Add support for collection wrapping a class
  `RB #3769 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3769>`_

* [engine] Simplify ProductGraph.walk
  `RB #3792 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3792>`_

* [engine] Make ScmProjectTree pickable and fix most GitFSTest tests
  `Issue #3281 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/3281>`_
  `RB #3770 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3770>`_

* [engine] bug fix: to pickle/unpickle within the proper context
  `RB #3751 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3751>`_
  `RB #3761 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3761>`_

* [engine] Support for synthetic target injection
  `RB #3738 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3738>`_
