1.3.x Stable Releases
=====================

This document describes releases leading up to the ``1.3.x`` ``stable`` series.

1.3.1rc2 (01/12/2018)
---------------------

The third release candidate for the ``1.3.1`` stable release.

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Use a particular git SHA to stabilize binary fetching. (#5137)
  `PR #5137 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/5137>`_

* Expose `jax_ws_library` target in `jax_ws` plugin. (#5122)
  `PR #5122 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/5122>`_

* Remove requirement for root build file in `changed` (#5134)
  `PR #5134 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/5134>`_

1.3.1rc1 (11/09/2017)
---------------------

The second release candidate for the ``1.3.1`` stable release.

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Include bintray as a backup binary baseurl. (#5068)
  `PR #5068 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/5068>`_

* Ensure setuptools version when running setup.py. (#4753)
  `PR #4753 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4753>`_

1.3.1rc0 (11/03/2017)
---------------------

The first release candidate for the ``1.3.1`` stable release.

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Allow users to tell pants where to look for python interpreters (#4930)
  `PR #4930 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4930>`_

* Add classname to target data reported by pytest (#4675)
  `PR #4675 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4675>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Switch default binary-baseurls to s3 (#4806)
  `PR #4806 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4806>`_

* Fix JarCreate invalidation in the presence of changing resources. (#5030)
  `PR #5030 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/5030>`_

* Allow in-repo scalac plugins to have in-repo deps. (#4987)
  `PR #4987 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4987>`_

* Add default routing for OSX High Sierra binaries. (#4894)
  `PR #4894 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4894>`_

* Fingerprint a bunch of go options. (#4743)
  `PR #4743 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4743>`_

* Improve transitive resolve package checking in tests. (#4738)
  `PR #4738 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4738>`_

* Ensure that target root order is preserved (#4708)
  `PR #4708 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4708>`_

* Fix new `PytestRun` task deselection handling. (#4648)
  `PR #4648 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4648>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Bump petgraph to 0.4.5 (#4836)
  `PR #4836 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4836>`_

* Partition and pass JVM options to scalafmt (#4774)
  `PR #4774 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4774>`_

* Use ElementTree to parse JUnit XML files because it is much faster than minidom (#4693)
  `PR #4693 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4693>`_

* Improve safe_concurrent_creation contextmanager. (#4690)
  `PR #4690 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4690>`_

1.3.0 (06/06/2017)
------------------

The ``1.3.0`` stable release, with no addition changes since the rc4 release!

A quick summary of exciting changes since the ``1.2.x`` branch:

* Pants' python backend has been overhauled and modernized to support caching, and to lower the
  latency of re-running tests after a code edit.
* Pants now uses a `native code 'engine' <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1C64MreDeVoZAl3HrqtWUVE-qnj3MyWW0NQ52xejjaWw/edit?usp=sharing>`_
  implemented in rust, which unlocks significant performance improvements in the future.
* A daemon that caches BUILD file parsing and file fingerprinting (and more to follow!) is now `ready
  for alpha testing <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/blob/b5eaf05ef533df4c5f93a3728107a27f25726941/pants.daemon.ini>`_
  (with `two significant caveats <http://www.pantsbuild.org/invoking.html#the-pants-daemon>`_).
* A default set of `implicit_sources <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4300>`_ can now be
  manually enabled to further reduce BUILD file boilerplate. This option should become the
  default in the next stable release.
* The Zinc incremental scala compiler is now at 1.0.0, with improved incremental behaviour.
* Style-related tasks that used to be in the `compile` goal have moved to a new `lint` goal.
* The `fmt` goal was added, with support for scalafmt, `gofmt`, and python `isort` to start.
* `Support for yarnpkg <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4255>`_ in the node contrib module.
* Support for `relative 'jar' declarations <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4279>`_, to
  allow for committing jars in your repo (if that's your bag!)
* A contrib module for `errorprone <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4163>`_ was added.
* Direct support for `scalatest` tests in the pants JVM test runner.

See the rest of this page for the complete list of changes.

1.3.0rc4 (05/27/2017)
---------------------

The fifth release candidate for 1.3.0, with fixes for two more user reported issues.

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Temporarily restore recursive behaviour for bundle filesets (#4630)
  `PR #4630 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4630>`_
  `PR #4624 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4624>`_
  `PR #4624 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4624>`_

* Check that test case attribute exists in junit xml file before converting it (#4623)
  `Issue #4619 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/4619>`_
  `PR #4623 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4623>`_


1.3.0rc3 (05/23/2017)
---------------------

The fourth release candidate for 1.3.0, which fixes an issue that caused spurious cache misses
cross platform in the v2 engine.

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* [engine] Check for duplicate deps in v2 graph construction. (#4616)
  `PR #4616 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4616>`_

* Improve Snapshot determinism (#4614)
  `PR #4614 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4614>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Remove Oracle Java6, which is now 404ing in Travis. (#4615)
  `PR #4615 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4615>`_

1.3.0rc2 (05/19/2017)
---------------------

The third release candidate for 1.3.0. This fixes a few more issues discovered during very
thorough testing by the community. Thank you everyone!

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Change method of reporting target data (#4593)
  `PR #4593 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4593>`_

* Include API that will store target info in run_tracker (#4561)
  `PR #4561 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4561>`_

* Switch to a conditional deprecation for the list-targets behaviour change. (#4600)
  `PR #4600 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4600>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Revert "Enable --compile-zinc-use-classpath-jars by default" (#4607)
  `PR #4607 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4607>`_

* Pass env vars through in ./pants run for python (#4606)
  `PR #4606 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4606>`_

* Fix broken export-classpath (#4603)
  `PR #4603 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4603>`_

* Fix export-classpaths exclude behavior (#4592)
  `PR #4592 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4592>`_

* Fix splitting of the build_flags for golang. (#4580)
  `PR #4580 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4580>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Don't register newpython tasks in the oldpython backend (#4602)
  `PR #4602 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4602>`_

1.3.0rc1 (05/12/2017)
---------------------

The second release candidate for 1.3.0! Thanks to excellent reports from a bunch of folks,
a few issues have been shaken out of the new codepaths introduced by the v2 engine.

It's possible that this will be the final release candidate for 1.3.0: please help give it
a thorough testing to help discover any more issues!

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Support "exports" for thrift targets (#4564)
  `PR #4564 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4564>`_

* Make setup_py tasks provide 'python_dists' product. (#4498)
  `PR #4498 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4498>`_

* Include transitive Resources targets in PrepareResources. (#4569)
  `PR #4569 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4569>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Fix built-in macros for the mutable ParseContext (#4583)
  `PR #4583 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4583>`_

* Exclude only roots for exclude-target-regexp in v2 (#4578)
  `PR #4578 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4578>`_

* Fix a pytest path mangling bug. (#4565)
  `PR #4565 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4565>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Specify a workunit for node.js test and run. (#4572)
  `PR #4572 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4572>`_

* [engine] Don't recreate a graph just for validation (#4566)
  `PR #4566 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4566>`_


1.3.0rc0 (05/08/2017)
---------------------

The first release candidate for the 1.3.0 stable release branch! Almost 7 months
in the making, this release brings a huge set of changes, which will be summarized
for the 1.3.0 final release.

Please test this release candidate to help ensure a stable stable 1.3.0 release!

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* [engine] Deprecate and replace `traversable_dependency_specs`. (#4542)
  `PR #4542 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4542>`_

* Move scalastyle and java checkstyle into the `lint` goal (#4540)
  `PR #4540 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4540>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Warn when implicit_sources would be used, but is disabled (#4559)
  `PR #4559 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4559>`_

* Ignore dot-directories by default (#4556)
  `PR #4556 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4556>`_

* Dockerize native engine builds. (#4554)
  `PR #4554 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4554>`_

* Make "changed" tasks work with deleted files (#4546)
  `PR #4546 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4546>`_

* Fix tag builds after the more-complete isort edit. (#4532)
  `PR #4532 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4532>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* [engine] Support tracebacks in engine traces; only show them w/ flag (#4549)
  `PR #4549 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4549>`_

* Fix two usages of Address.build_file that avoided detection during the deprecation. (#4538)
  `PR #4538 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4538>`_

Documentation Updates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Update target scope docs (#4553)
  `PR #4553 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4553>`_

* [engine] use rust doc comments instead of javadoc style comments (#4550)
  `PR #4550 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4550>`_

1.3.0.dev19 (4/28/2017)
-----------------------
A weekly unstable release.

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Add support for 'deployable_archives' for go and cpp rules. (#4518)
  `PR #4518 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4518>`_

* Deprecate `BuildFileAddress.build_file` (#4511)
  `PR #4511 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4511>`_

* Make usage of pantsd imply usage of watchman. (#4512)
  `PR #4512 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4512>`_

* Enable --compile-zinc-use-classpath-jars by default (#4525)
  `PR #4525 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4525>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Fix the kythe bootclasspath. (#4527)
  `PR #4527 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4527>`_

* Revert the zinc `1.0.0-X7` upgrade (#4510)
  `PR #4510 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4510>`_

* Invoke setup-py using an interpreter that matches the target. (#4482)
  `PR #4482 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4482>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* [pantsd] Ensure rust panics surface in output or daemon logs (#4522)
  `PR #4522 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4522>`_

* Make the release script more idempotent. (#4504)
  `PR #4504 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4504>`_

* [engine] pass on ResolveErrors during address injection (#4523)
  `PR #4523 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4523>`_

* [engine] Improve error messages for missing/empty dirs (#4517)
  `PR #4517 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4517>`_

* Render failed junit tests with no target owner. (#4521)
  `PR #4521 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4521>`_

* [engine] Better error messages for missing targets (#4509)
  `PR #4509 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4509>`_

* Options should only default to --color=True when sys.stdout isatty (#4503)
  `PR #4503 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4503>`_

Documentation Updates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Add a scala specs2 example (#4516)
  `PR #4516 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4516>`_


1.3.0.dev18 (4/21/2017)
-----------------------
A weekly unstable release.

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Create a lint goal and put checkstyle tasks in it. (#4481)
  `PR #4481 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4481>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Fix some incorrectly formatted dev release semvers. (#4501)
  `PR #4501 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4501>`_

* Make go targets work with v2 changed. (#4500)
  `PR #4500 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4500>`_

* Fix pytest fixture registration bug. (#4497)
  `PR #4497 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4497>`_

* Don't trigger deprecated scope warnings for options from the DEFAULT section (#4487)
  `PR #4487 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4487>`_

* Ensure that incomplete scalac plugin state doesn't get memoized. (#4480)
  `PR #4480 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4480>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* [engine] Skip re-creating copy of address if no variants (#4032)
  `PR #4032 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4032>`_

* Default `Fetcher.ProgressListener` to stderr. (#4499)
  `PR #4499 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4499>`_

* A contrib plugin to run the Kythe indexer on Java source. (#4457)
  `PR #4457 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4457>`_

* Keep failed target mapping free from `None` key. (#4493)
  `PR #4493 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4493>`_

* Bring back --no-fast mode in pytest run. (#4491)
  `PR #4491 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4491>`_

* [engine] Use enum for RuleEdges keys, add factory for Selects w/o variants (#4461)
  `PR #4461 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4461>`_

* Bump scala platform versions to 2.11.11 and 2.12.2 (#4488)
  `PR #4488 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4488>`_

* Get rid of the '2' registrations of the new python tasks. (#4486)
  `PR #4486 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4486>`_

* Make pytest report sources paths relative to the buildroot. (#4472)
  `PR #4472 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4472>`_

Documentation Updates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* [docs] fix broken link to certifi (#3508)
  `PR #3508 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/3508>`_

* [docs] Fix links in Go README (#3719)
  `PR #3719 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/3719>`_

* Update globs.md (#4476)
  `PR #4476 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4476>`_

* Fix some compiler plugin documentation nits. (#4462)
  `PR #4462 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4462>`_

* Convert readthedocs link for their .org -> .io migration for hosted projects (#3542)
  `PR #3542 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/3542>`_


1.3.0.dev17 (4/15/2017)
-----------------------
A weekly unstable release, highlighted by setting the new python backend as the default.

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~
* Upgrade pants to current versions of pytest et al. (#4410)
  `PR #4410 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4410>`_

* Add ParseContext singleton helper (#4466)
  `PR #4466 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4466>`_

* Make the new python backend the default. (#4441)
  `PR #4441 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4441>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~
* Correctly inject Yarn into the Node path when it is in use (#4455)
  `PR #4455 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4455>`_

* Fix resource loading issue in the python eval task. (#4452)
  `PR #4452 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4452>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* [engine] Use RuleGraph for task lookup instead of Tasks (#4371)
  `PR #4371 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4371>`_

* Re-use pre-built Linux engine binaries for bintray upload. (#4454)
  `PR #4454 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4454>`_

* Replace `indices` with `indexes` in docs (#4453)
  `PR #4453 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4453>`_

* Avoid re-walking for every target root in minimize (#4463)
  `PR #4463 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4463>`_


1.3.0.dev16 (4/08/2017)
-----------------------
A weekly unstable release.

This release brings the new `pantsbuild.pants.contrib.jax_ws
<https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/tree/master/contrib/jax_ws>`_ plugin that can generate Java
client stubs from WSDL sources. Thanks to Chris Heisterkamp for this!

The release also pulls in a few fixes for python requirement resolution in the PEX library used by
pants. In the past, the python-setup.resolver_allow_prereleases configuration option would not
always be respected; it now is. Additionally, a longstanding bug in transitive requirement
resolution that would lead to erroneous 'Ambiguous resolvable' errors has now been fixed. Thanks to
Todd Gardner and Nathan Butler for these fixes!

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Add JAX-WS plugin to generate client stub files from WSDL files (#4411)
  `PR #4411 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4411>`_

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Disable unused deps by default (#4440)
  `PR #4440 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4440>`_

* Bump pex version to 1.2.6 (#4442)
  `PR #4442 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4442>`_

* Upgrade to pex 1.2.5. (#4434)
  `PR #4434 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4434>`_

* Update 3rdparty jars: args4j to 2.33, jsr305 to 3.0.2, easymock to 3.4, burst-junit4 to 1.1.1, commons-io to 2.5, and mockito-core to 2.7.21 (#4421)
  `PR #4421 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4421>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Default --resolver-allow-prereleases to None. (#4445)
  `PR #4445 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4445>`_

* Fully hydrate a BuildGraph for the purposes of ChangedCalculator. (#4424)
  `PR #4424 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4424>`_

* Upgrade zinc to `1.0.0-X7` (python portion) (#4419)
  `Issue #75 <https://github.com/sbt/util/issues/75>`_
  `Issue #218 <https://github.com/sbt/zinc/issues/218>`_
  `PR #4419 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4419>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* [engine] New shared impl (#4429)
  `PR #4429 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4429>`_
  `PR #442) <https://github.com/alexcrichton/futures-rs/pull/442)>`_

* Speed up changed task when backed by v2 engine. (#4422)
  `PR #4422 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4422>`_

1.3.0.dev15 (4/03/2017)
-----------------------
A weekly unstable release, delayed by a week!

This release contains multiple significant new features, including the "exports" literal
on JVM targets (to better support common cases in repositories using "strict_deps"), the
initial release of the new python backend with caching support, a new "outdated.ivy" goal
to report which JVM dependencies are out of date, speedups for go builds, and last but not
least: the first release with the v2 engine enabled by default (to enable stabilization of
the pants daemon before the 1.3.x stable releases).

Thanks to the contributors!

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Add outdated.ivy command that looks for 3rd party jar updates with Ivy (#4386)
  `PR #4386 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4386>`_

* Implement exports literal in jvm_target (#4329)
  `PR #4329 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4329>`_

* Make jar_library target export all its dependencies (#4395)
  `PR #4395 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4395>`_

* A temporary `python2` backend with just the new python pipeline tasks. (#4378)
  `PR #4378 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4378>`_

* [engine] include rule graph in dot files generated with --visualize-to (#4367)
  `PR #4367 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4367>`_

* Speed up typical go builds. (#4362)
  `PR #4362 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4362>`_

* Enable v2 engine by default. (#4340)
  `PR #4340 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4340>`_

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Use released ivy-dependency-update-checker jar tool for outdated.ivy command (#4406)
  `PR #4406 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4406>`_

* Improve our use of gofmt. (#4379)
  `PR #4379 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4379>`_

* Bump the default scala 2.12 minor version to 2.12.1. (#4383)
  `PR #4383 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4383>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* [pantsd] Lazily initialize `CpuPool` for `Core` and `PosixFS` to address `SchedulerService` crash on Linux. (#4412)
  `PR #4412 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4412>`_

* [pantsd] Address pantsd-runner hang on Linux and re-enable integration test. (#4407)
  `PR #4407 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4407>`_

* Switch the new PytestRun task to use junitxml output. (#4403)
  `Issue #3837 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/3837>`_
  `PR #4403 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4403>`_

* [contrib/go] only pass go sources to gofmt (#4402)
  `PR #4402 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4402>`_

* Remove Address/BuildFileAddress ambiguity and fix list-owners (#4399)
  `PR #4399 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4399>`_

* Avoid creating deprecated resources in JavaAgent's constructor (#4400)
  `PR #4400 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4400>`_

* Invalidate all go compiles when the go version changes. (#4382)
  `PR #4382 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4382>`_

* Repair handling on resources kwargs for changed. (#4396)
  `PR #4396 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4396>`_

* python-binary-create task maps all product directories to the same target (#4390)
  `PR #4390 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4390>`_

* Fix Go source excludes; Cleanup old filespec matching (#4350)
  `PR #4350 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4350>`_

* inserted a www. into some pantsbuild links to un-break them (#4388)
  `PR #4388 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4388>`_

* Switch to using the new PythonEval task instead of the old one. (#4374)
  `PR #4374 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4374>`_

* Adding pragma back in the default coverage config (#4232)
  `PR #4232 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4232>`_

* decode compile logs (#4368)
  `PR #4368 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4368>`_

* Skip cycle detection test (#4361)
  `PR #4361 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4361>`_

* [engine] Fix whitelisting of files in `pants_ignore` (#4357)
  `PR #4357 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4357>`_

* Revert the shared workaround (#4354)
  `PR #4348 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4348>`_
  `PR #4354 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4354>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Cleanup and give better debug output for exclude patterns in findbugs and errorprone (#4408)
  `PR #4408 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4408>`_

* [engine] Rules as decorators (#4369)
  `PR #4369 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4369>`_

* [engine] Move snapshots from /tmp to pants workdir. (#4373)
  `PR #4373 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4373>`_

* [engine] Init Tasks before Scheduler (#4381)
  `PR #4381 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4381>`_

* TravisCI tuning. (#4385)
  `PR #4385 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4385>`_

* Switch the pants repo entirely over to the new python pipeline. (#4316)
  `PR #4316 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4316>`_

* Fix missing deps. (#4372)
  `PR #4372 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4372>`_

* A PythonEval task that uses the new pipeline. (#4341)
  `PR #4341 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4341>`_

* Create a pants.init package. (#4356)
  `PR #4356 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4356>`_

* [engine] short circuit native engine build failures (#4353)
  `PR #4353 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4353>`_

* Check for stale native_engine_version. (#4360)
  `PR #4360 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4360>`_

* [engine] Improving performance by iteratively expanding products within SelectTransitive (#4349)
  `PR #4349 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4349>`_

* Move all logic out of Context (#4343)
  `PR #4343 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4343>`_

* Add support for subprojects in v2 (#4346)
  `PR #4346 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4346>`_

* Fix missing and circular deps. (#4345)
  `Issue #4138 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/4138>`_
  `PR #4345 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4345>`_

1.3.0.dev14 (3/17/2017)
-----------------------
A weekly unstable release.

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* [pantsd] Add an option to configure the watchman startup timeout. (#4332)
  `PR #4332 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4332>`_

* Relativize jar_dependency.base_path (#4326)
  `PR #4326 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4326>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Fix bad import from race commits (#4335)
  `PR #4335 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4335>`_

* Misc fixes to python tasks: (#4323)
  `PR #4323 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4323>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Fix product mapping for ivy resolve when libraries are not jar files (#4339)
  `PR #4339 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4339>`_

* Refactor the new SelectInterpreter and GatherSources tasks. (#4337)
  `PR #4337 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4337>`_

* Lock down the native-engine-version (#4338)
  `PR #4338 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4338>`_

* [engine] Inline execution of Select/Dependencies/Projection/Literal (#4331)
  `PR #4331 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4331>`_

* Upgrade to mock 2.0.0. (#4336)
  `PR #4336 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4336>`_

* [engine] Improve memory layout for Graph (#4333)
  `PR #4333 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4333>`_

* [engine] Split SelectDependencies into SelectDependencies and SelectTransitive (#4334)
  `PR #4334 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4334>`_

* Simplify PythonSetup usage (#4328)
  `PR #4328 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4328>`_

* Bump native engine version. (#4330)
  `PR #4330 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4330>`_

* [engine] Move to new-style CFFI callbacks. (#4324)
  `PR #4324 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4324>`_

* Profile the pants invocations in integration tests. (#4325)
  `PR #4325 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4325>`_

1.3.0.dev13 (3/10/2017)
-----------------------
A weekly unstable release.

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Bump pex version to latest. (#4314)
  `PR #4314 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4314>`_

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Binary builder task for the new python pipeline. (#4313)
  `PR #4313 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4313>`_

* [engine] rm python graphmaker; create dot formatted display (#4295)
  `PR #4295 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4295>`_

* A setup_py task for the new python pipeline. (#4308)
  `PR #4308 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4308>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* scrooge_gen task copy strict_deps field (#4321)
  `PR #4321 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4321>`_

* [jvm-compile] Copy compile classpath into runtime classpath even if already defined (#4310)
  `PR #4310 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4310>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Fix reliance on symlinks in testdata. (#4320)
  `PR #4320 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4320>`_

* Introduce SUPPRESS_LABEL on workunit's console output and have thrift-linter and jar-tool adopt it (#4318)
  `PR #4318 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4318>`_

1.3.0.dev12 (3/3/2017)
----------------------
A weekly unstable release.

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Completely revamp how we support JVM compiler plugins. (#4287)
  `PR #4287 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4287>`_


New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* A PytestRun task for the new Python pipeline. (#4252)
  `PR #4252 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4252>`_

* Add ability to specify subprojects (#4088)
  `PR #4088 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4088>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Fix missed native_engine_version.
  `Commit cbdb97515 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/commit/cbdb97515>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* [engine] Rust IO (#4265)
  `PR #4265 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4265>`_

* [engine] Support implicit sources in v2 engine (#4294)
  `PR #4294 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4294>`_

* SelectLiteral isn't tied to the requester's subject: it has its own. (#4293)
  `PR #4293 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4293>`_

* Include Javascript files in JVM binary (#4264)
  `PR #4264 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4264>`_

* Update errorprone to version 2.0.17 (#4291)
  `PR #4291 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4291>`_

* node_modules and node_test support yarnpkg as package manager (#4255)
  `PR #4255 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4255>`_


1.3.0.dev11 (2/24/2017)
-----------------------
A weekly unstable release.

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Support local jar with relative path in JarDependency (#4279)
  `PR #4279 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4279>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Upgrade default jarjar to 1.6.4. (#4271)
  `Issue #26 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/jarjar/issues/26>`_
  `PR #4271 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4271>`_

* Memoize validation of deprecated versions (#4273)
  `PR #4273 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4273>`_

* [engine] Remove type_id field from Value (#4274)
  `PR #4274 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4274>`_

* [New Python Pipeline] Add resources to PEXes correctly. (#4275)
  `PR #4275 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4275>`_

* Upgrade default go to 1.8. (#4272)
  `PR #4272 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4272>`_

* Fix missed native_engine_version commit.
  `Commit d966f9592 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/commit/d966f9592fba2040429fc8a64f8aa4deb5e61f2c>`_

* Make options fingerprinting very difficult to disable (#4262)
  `PR #4262 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4262>`_

* Bump pex requirement to 1.2.3 (#4277)
  `PR #4277 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4277>`_

* Strip the root-level __init__.py that apache thrift generates. (#4281)
  `PR #4281 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4281>`_

* Small tweak to the Dockerfile. (#4263)
  `PR #4263 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4263>`_

* Make "./pants changed" output correct results when BUILD files are modified (#4282)
  `PR #4282 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4282>`_

* [engine] minor clean up `engine.close` usage in `visualizer` (#4284)
  `PR #4284 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4284>`_


1.3.0.dev10 (2/17/2017)
-----------------------

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Treat PythonTarget dependencies on Resources targets appropriately. (#4249)
  `PR #4249 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4249>`_

* [engine] fix address node creation in v2 build graph; fix filedeps (#4235)
  `PR #4235 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4235>`_

* Repair `Broken pipe` on pantsd thin client execution when piped to a non-draining reader. (#4230)
  `PR #4230 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4230>`_

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Deprecate Python target resources= and resource_targets=. (#4251)
  `PR #4251 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4251>`_

* Deprecate use of resources= in JVM targets. (#4248)
  `PR #4248 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4248>`_

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* New python repl task. (#4219)
  `PR #4219 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4219>`_

* Add a node bundle goal (#4212)
  `PR #4212 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4212>`_

* A task to generate Python code from ANTLR3 grammars.
  `PR #4206 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4206>`_

Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Fixing grammatical error in why use pants doc page (#4239)
  `PR #4239 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4239>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Work around native engine/tag chicken-egg. (#4270)
  `PR #4270 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4270>`_

* [engine] Make Graph.get generic and make Externs static (#4261)
  `PR #4261 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4261>`_

* A Dockerfile for building a pants development image. (#4260)
  `PR #4260 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4260>`_

* [engine] Use Value in invoke_runnable as the function instead of Function (#4258)
  `PR #4258 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4258>`_

* [engine] `Storage` clean ups  (#4257)
  `PR #4257 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4257>`_

* [engine] remove Field type in favor of using String directly (#4256)
  `PR #4256 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4256>`_

* Remove our use of resources= and resource_targets= in python targets. (#4250)
  `PR #4250 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4250>`_

* Get rid of resources=[] stanzas in our JVMTargets. (#4247)
  `PR #4247 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4247>`_

* Change engine visual graph layout from LR to TB (#4245)
  `PR #4245 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4245>`_

* Simplify ci script test running stanzas. (#4209)
  `PR #4209 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4209>`_

* [engine] Porting validation to Rust pt ii (#4243)
  `PR #4243 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4243>`_

* Require dev-suffixed deprecation versions (#4216)
  `PR #4216 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4216>`_

* [engine] Begin port of engine rule graph validation to Rust (#4227)
  `PR #4227 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4227>`_

* Derive object id used in the native context from object's content (#4233)
  `PR #4233 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4233>`_

* [engine] Use futures for scheduling (#4221)
  `PR #4221 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4221>`_

* Add a 'current' symlink to the task-versioned prefix of the workdir. (#4220)
  `PR #4220 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4220>`_

* Improve BUILD file matching in the v2 path. (#4226)
  `PR #4226 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4226>`_

* Batch address injections in dependees task. (#4222)
  `PR #4222 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4222>`_


1.3.0.dev9 (1/27/2017)
----------------------

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Removes the slf4j implementation from the classpath when running Cobertura (#4198)
  `PR #4198 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4198>`_

* Make open_zip print realpath when raising BadZipfile. (#4186)
  `PR #4186 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4186>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Shard testprojects integration tests (#4205)
  `PR #4205 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4205>`_

* Resolve only stable releases by default. (#4201)
  `PR #4201 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4201>`_


1.3.0.dev8 (1/20/2017)
----------------------

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Bump pex version to 1.1.20 (#4191)
  `PR #4191 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4191>`_

* Ban some characters in target name (#4180)
  `PR #4180 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4180>`_

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Scrooge codegen improvements (#4177)
  `PR #4177 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4177>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Kill review tooling remnants. (#4192)
  `PR #4192 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4192>`_

* Only release native-engine for pants releases. (#4189)
  `PR #4189 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4189>`_

* Add some useful tips to the release documentation. (#4183)
  `PR #4183 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4183>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Add __init__.py for tests/python directories (#4193)
  `PR #4193 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4193>`_

* Fix `str`-typed options with `int` defaults. (#4184)
  `PR #4184 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4184>`_


1.3.0.dev7 (1/13/2017)
----------------------

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Upgrade zinc and default scala-platform in pants repo to 2.11 (#4176)
  `PR #4176 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4176>`_

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Add contrib module for Error Prone http://errorprone.info/ (#4163)
  `PR #4163 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4163>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* add various codegen packages to default backend packages (#4175)
  `PR #4175 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4175>`_

* Suggest missing dependencies from target's transitive dependencies (#4171)
  `PR #4171 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4171>`_

* Reduce compilation invalidation scope of targets with strict_deps=True (#4143)
  `PR #4143 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4143>`_

* Fork to post_stat (#4170)
  `PR #4170 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4170>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* fix a small bug in ApacheThriftGenBase class (#4181)
  `PR #4181 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4181>`_


1.3.0.dev6 (1/06/2017)
----------------------

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Refactor the thrift codegen task. (#4155)
  `PR #4155 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4155>`_

* Finish splitting up the codegen backend. (#4147)
  `PR #4147 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4147>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Fix import order issues introduced by a previous commit. (#4156)
  `PR #4156 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4156>`_

* Bump default nodejs version to 6.9.1 from 6.2.0 (#4161)
  `PR #4161 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4161>`_

* Make post_stat async (#4157)
  `PR #4157 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4157>`_

* Fix release script owners check.
  `Commit <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/commit/a40234429cc05f6483f91b08f10037429710b5b4>`_


1.3.0.dev5 (12/30/2016)
-----------------------

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Upgrade default go to 1.7.4. (#4149)
  `PR #4149 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4149>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Fix instructions for ivy debug logging (#4141)
  `PR #4141 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4141>`_

* Handle unicode in classpath entries (#4136)
  `PR #4136 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4136>`_

* Ensure that invalid vts have results_dir cleaned before passing to ta… (#4139)
  `PR #4139 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4139>`_

Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* [docs] Update the cache section on the Task developer page. (#4152)
  `PR #4152 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4152>`_

* Prepare notes for 1.2.1.rc0 (#4146)
  `PR #4146 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4146>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Start breaking up the codegen backend. (#4147)
  `PR #4147 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4147>`_

* Cleanup unused cffi handles to free memory (#4135)
  `PR #4135 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4135>`_

* A new Python run task. (#4142)
  `PR #4142 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4142>`_

1.3.0.dev4 (12/08/2016)
-----------------------

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Redirect bootstrapping calls in pants binary to stderr (#4131)
  `PR #4131 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4131>`_

* Ensure that the protoc root import path is examined first (#4129)
  `PR #4129 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4129>`_

* Allow the buildroot to be a source root (#4093)
  `PR #4093 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/4093>`_

* A flag to add the buildroot to protoc's import path (#4122)
  `PR #4122 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4122>`_

* Drop libc dependency from native engine (#4124)
  `PR #4124 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4124>`_

* Execute traces for all non-Return values (#4118)
  `PR #4118 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4118>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* directly invoke runnable from native code (#4128)
  `PR #4128 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4128>`_

* Bump pex version.

* [engine] model snapshots in validation, make root rules a dict instead of a set (#4125)
  `PR #4125 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4125>`_

* classmap: a jvm console task that outputs mapping from class products to their targets (#4081)
  `PR #4081 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4081>`_

* Update bintray deploys to use a shared account. (#4126)
  `PR #4126 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4126>`_

* Plumb a configurable worker count to thrift linter. (#4121)
  `PR #4121 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4121>`_

Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* [docs] Add section for building multiplatform python binaries with native dependencies (#4119)
  `PR #4119 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4119>`_


1.3.0.dev3 (12/02/2016)
-----------------------

A weekly unstable release.

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Bump pex and setuptools to latest. (#4111)
  `PR #4111 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4111>`_

* Bump setuptools version. (#4103)
  `PR #4103 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4103>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Update junit-runner to 1.0.17 (#4113)
  `PR #4113 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4113>`_
  `PR #4106 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4106>`_

* Don't exit the JUnitRunner with number of failures because Java will mod the exit code. (#4106)
  `PR #4106 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4106>`_

* Allow for using the native engine from-source in another repo (#4105)
  `PR #4105 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4105>`_

* Un-publish the `jar` goal. (#4095)
  `PR #4095 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4095>`_

* Restore compile-zinc-name-hashing option to follow deprecation cycle (#4091)
  `PR #4091 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4091>`_

* Fix a Python requirement resolution test bug. (#4087)
  `PR #4087 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4087>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* [engine] Remove variant selecting from native engine (#4108)
  `PR #4108 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4108>`_

* Reduce hashing during v2 transitive graph walks (#4109)
  `PR #4109 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4109>`_

* Add a native engine release check. (#4096)
  `PR #4096 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4096>`_

* Remove coveralls from CI. (#4099)
  `PR #4099 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4099>`_

* Run the proto compiler in workunit. (#4092)
  `PR #4092 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4092>`_

* Restore propagation of thrown exceptions between rust and python (#4083)
  `PR #4083 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4083>`_

* Make `cargo build --release` the default for native engine bootstrapping. (#4090)
  `PR #4090 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4090>`_

Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Remove stale example from 3rdparty_jvm.md (#4112)
  `PR #4112 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4112>`_

* Add "common tasks" docs (#4060)
  `PR #4060 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4060>`_

* Fix typo in docs (#4097)
  `PR #4097 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4097>`_

1.3.0dev2 (11/20/2016)
----------------------

A return to the regular schedule of weekly unstable releases.

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~
* Move SimpleCodegenTask into the pants core.
  `PR #4079 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4079>`_

* Move the pytest-related runtime requirement specs  into a subsystem.
  `PR #4071 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4071>`_

* Add the scala 2.12 platform
  `RB #4388 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4388>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Fixup OSX bintray prep. (#4086)
  `PR #4086 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4086>`_

* Task to gather local python sources into a pex.
  `PR #4084 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4084>`_

* [engine] Initial Trace implementation for rust engine (#4076)
  `Issue #4025 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/4025>`_
  `PR #4076 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4076>`_

* Propose a github review workflow
  `RB #4333 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4333>`_

* Spelling mistake in first_tutorial (#4045)
  `PR #4045 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4045>`_

* Replace instances of pantsbuild.github.io in the docs with www.pantsbuild.org.
  `PR #4074 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4074>`_

* A task to resolve python requirements.
  `PR #4065 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4065>`_

* Upgrade zinc's sbt dependency to 1.0.0: python portion
  `RB #4064 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4064>`_
  `RB #4340 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4340>`_
  `RB #4342 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4342>`_

* Skip failing tests to get CI green.
  `RB #4391 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4391>`_

* Avoid using expensive bootstrap artifacts from temporary cache location
  `RB #4342 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4342>`_
  `RB #4368 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4368>`_

1.3.0dev1 (11/16/2016)
----------------------

There has been a month gap between master releases and a corresponding large number of
changes. Most notably:

* Pants now ships with a new native engine core that is the future of pants scalability work.

* Pants has adopted a `code of conduct
  <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md>`_

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Make findbugs task not transitive by default and modify findbugs progress output
  `RB #4376 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4376>`_

* Adding a Code of Conduct
  `RB #4354 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4354>`_

* Surface --dereference-symlinks flag to task caching level
  `RB #4338 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4338>`_

* support mutually_exclusive_group parameter in option registration
  `RB #4336 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4336>`_

* Deprecate the `java_tests` alias in favor of `junit_tests`.
  `RB #4322 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4322>`_

* Add a target-types option to scalafmt to avoid formatting all targets
  `RB #4328 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4328>`_

* Adding scalafmt formatting to fmt goal
  `RB #4312 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4312>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Capture testcase for unknown test failures in the JUnit Xml
  `RB #4377 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4377>`_

* Correction on [resolve.node]
  `RB #4362 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4362>`_
  `RB #4364 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4364>`_

* Remove safe_mkdir on results_dir in [resolve.node]
  `RB #4362 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4362>`_

* Improve python_binary target fingerprinting.
  `RB #4353 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4353>`_

* Bugfix: when synthesizing remote libraries in Go, pin them to the same rev as adjacent libs.
  `RB #4325 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4325>`_

* Fix the SetupPy target ownership check.
  `RB #4315 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4315>`_

* Update junit runner to 1.0.15 to get java 7 compatibility
  `RB #4324 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4324>`_

* Fix erroneous deprecated scope warnings.
  `RB #4323 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4323>`_

* Back down the minimum required java version for running Pants tools to java 7
  `RB #4127 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4127>`_
  `RB #4253 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4253>`_
  `RB #4314 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4314>`_

* Fix exclude_target_regexp breakage in test-changed and --files option breakage in changed with diffspec
  `RB #4321 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4321>`_

* Prevent cleanup error at end of pants test with --test-junit-html-report option, update safe_rmtree to be symlink aware
  `RB #4319 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4319>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Format / Sort COMMITTERS.md; Add Yujie Chen to Active list
  `RB #4382 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4382>`_

* Bump junit-runner to 1.0.16
  `RB #4381 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4381>`_

* Patch to make scala tests work
  `RB #4361 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4361>`_

* Kill un-used `pants.jenkins.ini`.
  `RB #4369 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4369>`_

* Kill unused Jenkins experiment.
  `RB #4366 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4366>`_

* Split test_zinc_compile_integration into two smaller tests
  `RB #4365 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4365>`_

* Upgrade zinc's sbt dependency to 1.0.0: JVM portion
  `Issue #144 <https://github.com/sbt/zinc/issues/144>`_
  `Issue #151 <https://github.com/sbt/zinc/issues/151>`_
  `Issue #185 <https://github.com/sbt/zinc/issues/185>`_
  `RB #3658 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3658>`_
  `RB #4342 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4342>`_
  `RB #4340 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4340>`_

* Perf improvement: rebase analysis file once instead of multiple times
  `Issue #8 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/zincutils/issues/8>`_
  `RB #4352 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4352>`_

* Leverage default sources where possible.
  `RB #4358 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4358>`_

* [python-ng] A task to select a python interpreter.
  `RB #4346 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4346>`_

* Parallelize thrift linter
  `RB #4351 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4351>`_

* normalize filespec exclude usage
  `RB #4348 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4348>`_

* clean up deprecated global_subsystems and task_subsystems
  `RB #4349 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4349>`_

* [jvm-compile] Ensure all invalid dependencies of targets are correctly represented in compile graph
  `RB #4136 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4136>`_
  `RB #4343 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4343>`_

* Change default ./pants fmt.isort <empty> behavior to no-op; Add sources check for isort.
  `RB #4327 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4327>`_

* Allow targets to have sensible defaults for sources=.
  `RB #4300 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4300>`_

* Remove the long-deprecated Target.is_codegen().
  `RB #4318 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4318>`_

* Add one more shard to travis ci
  `RB #4320 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4320>`_

New Engine Work
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Revert "Revert "Generate 32 bit native engine binaries.""
  `RB #4380 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4380>`_
  `Issue #4035 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/4035>`_

* Add contrib, 3rdparty to copy list for mock buildroot as v2 engine to pass prefix checks.
  `RB #4379 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4379>`_

* Generate 32 bit native engine binaries.
  `RB #4373 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4373>`_

* Add support for publishing for OSX 10.7+.
  `RB #4371 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4371>`_

* Wire up native binary deploy to bintray.
  `RB #4370 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4370>`_

* Re-work native engine version.
  `RB #4367 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4367>`_

* First round of native engine feedback
  `Issue #4020 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/4020>`_
  `RB #4270 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4270>`_
  `RB #4359 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4359>`_

* [engine] Native scheduler implementation
  `RB #4270 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4270>`_

* Bootstrap the native engine from live sources.
  `RB #4345 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4345>`_

1.3.0dev0 (10/14/2016)
----------------------

The first unstable release of the 1.3.x series.

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Add subsystem_utils to test_infra
  `RB #4303 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4303>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Switch default deference back to True for tarball artifact
  `RB #4304 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4304>`_

* Filter inactive goals from `Goal.all`.
  `RB #4298 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4298>`_

* JUnit runner fix for len(args) > max_args in argfile.safe_args
  `RB #4294 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4294>`_

* Fix --changed-files option
  `RB #4309 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4309>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Migrate changed integration tests to isolated temp git repos and add an environment variable to override buildroot
  `RB #4295 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4295>`_

* Get rid of the "Skipped X files" messages from isort output.
  `RB #4301 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4301>`_

* Version clarification
  `RB #4299 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4299>`_

* Fix isort to run `./pants fmt.isort` once.
  `RB #4297 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4297>`_

* Dogfood `./pants fmt.isort`.
  `RB #4289 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4289>`_

* Extract the junit xml report parser.
  `RB #4292 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4292>`_

* Leverage default targets throughout pants BUILDs.
  `RB #4287 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4287>`_

New Engine Work
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* [engine] Improve daemon run profiling.
  `RB #4293 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4293>`_

