docs/notes/2.22.x.md, before:

# 2.22.x Release Series

Pants 2 is a fast, scalable, user-friendly build system for codebases of all sizes. It's currently focused on Python, Go, Java, Scala, Kotlin, Shell, and Docker, with support for other languages and frameworks coming soon.

Individuals and companies can now [sponsor Pants financially](https://www.pantsbuild.org/sponsorship).

Pants is an open-source project that is not owned or controlled by any one company or organization, and does incur some expenses. These expenses are managed by Pants Build, a non-profit that was established for this purpose. This non-profit's only source of revenue is sponsorship by individuals and companies that use Pants.

We offer [formal sponsorship tiers for companies](https://www.pantsbuild.org/sponsorship), as well as individual sponsorships via [GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/pantsbuild).

## What's New

### Highlights

- A new implementation of the options system.

### New options system

This release introduces a major re-implementation of the Pants [options system](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/docs/using-pants/key-concepts/options). This is the code responsible for parsing and applying configuration options from command-line flags, environment variables and config files. The existing "legacy" options system was written in Python. The new "native" implementation is written in Rust.

The two systems are expected to be more-or-less functionally identical. We plan to switch to the native system in release 2.23.x, and remove the legacy system in release 2.24.x. However to ensure that this transition is not disruptive, this release and the next one will run both systems and compare their results, issuing a warning if they differ.

If you encounter such discrepancies, and you can't resolve them easily, please [reach out to us on Slack or file an issue](https://www.pantsbuild.org/community/getting-help).

### Backends

#### NEW: SQL

A new experimental `SQL` backend was added along with the [sqlfluff
linter](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/reference/subsystems/sqlfluff). See
docs [here](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/docs/sql).

#### NEW: Makeself

A new experimental `pants.backend.experimental.makeself` backend was added to support
[`makeself`](https://github.com/megastep/makeself) tool. A new
[`makeself_archive`](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/reference/targets/makeself_archive)
target allows you to create self-extractable archives that bundle files, bash
scripts or even pex binaries into a single executable archive! See examples in the
[docs](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/docs/shell/self-extractable-archives).

#### Helm

The default version of the [hikaru](https://github.com/haxsaw/hikaru) packages used to parse Kubernetes resources has been upgraded.  If you were previously installing `hikaru` from a custom resolve you should be aware that the upstream packaging strategy for supporting multiple Kubernetes versions [has changed](https://github.com/haxsaw/hikaru/blob/main/release_notes.rst#v110).

#### JVM

[Added documentation](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/docs/jvm/java-and-scala#pomxml)
for [`jvm_artifacts`](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/reference/targets/jvm_artifacts)
targets generator from `pom.xml`.

Exclusions for `jvm_artifact` and `scala_artifact` now correctly handle a `jvm_exclude` with only the group defined.

Added a `deploy_jar_exclude_files` option to the `[jvm]` subsystem, containing file patterns to exclude from all 
deploy jars, in addition to those specified on a per-jar basis in the `deploy_jar` target's `exclude_files` field. 
This option's default value excludes signature files from constituent jars, which are known to cause the deploy jar
to fail to execute (since naturally it doesn't match those signatures).

The internal code for exporting JVM tools was refactored.

##### Scala

Setting the `orphan_files_behaviour = "ignore"` option for [`pants.backend.experimental.scala.lint.scalafix`](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/reference/subsystems/scalafix#orphan_files_behavior) or [`pants.backend.experimental.scala.lint.scalafmt`](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/reference/subsystems/scalafmt#orphan_files_behavior) backend is now properly silent. It previously showed spurious warnings.

#### OpenAPI

The `openapi_document` target will now bundle itself and its `openapi_source` dependencies into a single file when depended on by other targets. Do note that this change will make the `openapi_document` target behave more like a `resource` target rather than a `file` target, which in turn will likely affect which mechanism you need to use when loading it in dependent code.

#### Python

[The `pants.backend.experimental.python.lint.ruff` backend](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/reference/subsystems/ruff) now uses version 0.4.4 by default.

The new `layout="loose"` field for AWS Lambda [function](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/reference/targets/python_aws_lambda_function#layout), [layer](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/reference/targets/python_aws_lambda_layer#layout) and [Google Cloud Function](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/reference/targets/python_google_cloud_function#layout) targets outputs the artefact as a directory, rather than a zip file.

Initial support for Python 3.13 (pre-release) has been added. NB. built-in tool like black will [not yet](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/20852) run with Python 3.13.

The [PyOxizider tool is effectively stagnant](https://github.com/indygreg/PyOxidizer/issues/7410). [The `pants.backend.experimental.python.packaging.pyoxidizer` backend](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/docs/python/integrations/pyoxidizer) docs now have a note reflecting this.

[The `extra_build_args` field](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/reference/targets/pex_binaries#extra_build_args) is now available on the `pex_binaries` target generator, in addition to `pex_binary`.

Default module mappings were added for more modules:

The deprecation for the `platforms` field for the `pex_binary` and `pex_binaries` targets has expired, and so has been removed. The `resolve_local_platforms` field is now meaningless and is thus deprecated.

Python tool subsystem docs and help text now include the default version of the tool, along with instructions on how to override this version using a custom lockfile. Additionally, the help text for the `install_from_resolve` option for Python tools now includes this same information.

Python tools can be [exported from their default bundled lockfiles](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/docs/using-pants/setting-up-an-ide#tool-virtualenvs). For instance, when using the default `black` subsystem, `pants export --resolve=black` will export a venv containing the version of black that Pants runs.

New field `pex_build_extra_args` is available on FaaS targets [python_aws_lambda_function](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/reference/targets/python_aws_lambda_function#pex_build_extra_args), 
[python_aws_lambda_layer](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/reference/targets/python_aws_lambda_layer#pex_build_extra_args), and [python_google_cloud_function]((https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/reference/targets/python_aws_lambda_layer#pex_build_extra_args). This allows passing arguments to the `pex` invocation for collecting sources and packaging.

#### Semgrep

The default version of `semgrep` used by the `pants.backends.experimental.tool.semgrep` backend is now version 1.72.0, upgraded from 1.46.0. This version requires Python 3.8 or greater.

#### Shell

[The `pants.backend.shell.lint.shfmt` backend](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/docs/shell#shfmt-autoformatter) now uses shfmt version 3.8.0 by default.

#### Yaml

Setting [the `orphan_files_behaviour = "ignore"` option](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/reference/subsystems/yamllint#orphan_files_behavior) the `pants.backend.experimental.tools.yamllint` backend is now properly silent. It previously showed spurious warnings.

### Plugin API changes

The `PythonToolRequirementsBase` and `PythonToolBase` classes now have a new `help_short` field. Subclasses should now use `help_short` instead of the `help` field. The `help` field will be automatically generated using `help_short`, and will include the tool's default package version and provide instructions on how to override this version using a custom lockfile.

Target `Field` types can now have per instance default values, overriding the class var `default` value declared on the `Field` subclass by wrapping the field value in a `FieldDefaultValue` when creating the field instance.

## Full Changelog

For the full changelog, see the individual GitHub Releases for this series: https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/releases

Commit message:

Mark field values from `__defaults__` as being a default value.

docs/notes/2.22.x.md, after:

# 2.22.x Release Series

Pants 2 is a fast, scalable, user-friendly build system for codebases of all sizes. It's currently focused on Python, Go, Java, Scala, Kotlin, Shell, and Docker, with support for other languages and frameworks coming soon.

Individuals and companies can now [sponsor Pants financially](https://www.pantsbuild.org/sponsorship).

Pants is an open-source project that is not owned or controlled by any one company or organization, and does incur some expenses. These expenses are managed by Pants Build, a non-profit that was established for this purpose. This non-profit's only source of revenue is sponsorship by individuals and companies that use Pants.

We offer [formal sponsorship tiers for companies](https://www.pantsbuild.org/sponsorship), as well as individual sponsorships via [GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/pantsbuild).

## What's New

### Highlights

- A new implementation of the options system.
- Default values from `__defaults__` now work the same as the builtin defaults, such as for `source` globs etc.

### New options system

This release introduces a major re-implementation of the Pants [options system](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/docs/using-pants/key-concepts/options). This is the code responsible for parsing and applying configuration options from command-line flags, environment variables and config files. The existing "legacy" options system was written in Python. The new "native" implementation is written in Rust.

The two systems are expected to be more-or-less functionally identical. We plan to switch to the native system in release 2.23.x, and remove the legacy system in release 2.24.x. However to ensure that this transition is not disruptive, this release and the next one will run both systems and compare their results, issuing a warning if they differ.

If you encounter such discrepancies, and you can't resolve them easily, please [reach out to us on Slack or file an issue](https://www.pantsbuild.org/community/getting-help).

### Backends

#### NEW: SQL

A new experimental `SQL` backend was added along with the [sqlfluff
linter](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/reference/subsystems/sqlfluff). See
docs [here](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/docs/sql).

#### NEW: Makeself

A new experimental `pants.backend.experimental.makeself` backend was added to support
[`makeself`](https://github.com/megastep/makeself) tool. A new
[`makeself_archive`](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/reference/targets/makeself_archive)
target allows you to create self-extractable archives that bundle files, bash
scripts or even pex binaries into a single executable archive! See examples in the
[docs](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/docs/shell/self-extractable-archives).

#### Helm

The default version of the [hikaru](https://github.com/haxsaw/hikaru) packages used to parse Kubernetes resources has been upgraded.  If you were previously installing `hikaru` from a custom resolve you should be aware that the upstream packaging strategy for supporting multiple Kubernetes versions [has changed](https://github.com/haxsaw/hikaru/blob/main/release_notes.rst#v110).

#### JVM

[Added documentation](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/docs/jvm/java-and-scala#pomxml)
for [`jvm_artifacts`](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/reference/targets/jvm_artifacts)
targets generator from `pom.xml`.

Exclusions for `jvm_artifact` and `scala_artifact` now correctly handle a `jvm_exclude` with only the group defined.

Added a `deploy_jar_exclude_files` option to the `[jvm]` subsystem, containing file patterns to exclude from all 
deploy jars, in addition to those specified on a per-jar basis in the `deploy_jar` target's `exclude_files` field. 
This option's default value excludes signature files from constituent jars, which are known to cause the deploy jar
to fail to execute (since naturally it doesn't match those signatures).

The internal code for exporting JVM tools was refactored.

##### Scala

Setting the `orphan_files_behaviour = "ignore"` option for [`pants.backend.experimental.scala.lint.scalafix`](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/reference/subsystems/scalafix#orphan_files_behavior) or [`pants.backend.experimental.scala.lint.scalafmt`](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/reference/subsystems/scalafmt#orphan_files_behavior) backend is now properly silent. It previously showed spurious warnings.

#### OpenAPI

The `openapi_document` target will now bundle itself and its `openapi_source` dependencies into a single file when depended on by other targets. Do note that this change will make the `openapi_document` target behave more like a `resource` target rather than a `file` target, which in turn will likely affect which mechanism you need to use when loading it in dependent code.

#### Python

[The `pants.backend.experimental.python.lint.ruff` backend](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/reference/subsystems/ruff) now uses version 0.4.4 by default.

The new `layout="loose"` field for AWS Lambda [function](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/reference/targets/python_aws_lambda_function#layout), [layer](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/reference/targets/python_aws_lambda_layer#layout) and [Google Cloud Function](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/reference/targets/python_google_cloud_function#layout) targets outputs the artefact as a directory, rather than a zip file.

Initial support for Python 3.13 (pre-release) has been added. NB. built-in tool like black will [not yet](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/20852) run with Python 3.13.

The [PyOxizider tool is effectively stagnant](https://github.com/indygreg/PyOxidizer/issues/7410). [The `pants.backend.experimental.python.packaging.pyoxidizer` backend](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/docs/python/integrations/pyoxidizer) docs now have a note reflecting this.

[The `extra_build_args` field](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/reference/targets/pex_binaries#extra_build_args) is now available on the `pex_binaries` target generator, in addition to `pex_binary`.

Default module mappings were added for more modules:

The deprecation for the `platforms` field for the `pex_binary` and `pex_binaries` targets has expired, and so has been removed. The `resolve_local_platforms` field is now meaningless and is thus deprecated.

Python tool subsystem docs and help text now include the default version of the tool, along with instructions on how to override this version using a custom lockfile. Additionally, the help text for the `install_from_resolve` option for Python tools now includes this same information.

Python tools can be [exported from their default bundled lockfiles](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/docs/using-pants/setting-up-an-ide#tool-virtualenvs). For instance, when using the default `black` subsystem, `pants export --resolve=black` will export a venv containing the version of black that Pants runs.

New field `pex_build_extra_args` is available on FaaS targets [python_aws_lambda_function](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/reference/targets/python_aws_lambda_function#pex_build_extra_args), 
[python_aws_lambda_layer](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/reference/targets/python_aws_lambda_layer#pex_build_extra_args), and [python_google_cloud_function]((https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/reference/targets/python_aws_lambda_layer#pex_build_extra_args). This allows passing arguments to the `pex` invocation for collecting sources and packaging.

#### Semgrep

The default version of `semgrep` used by the `pants.backends.experimental.tool.semgrep` backend is now version 1.72.0, upgraded from 1.46.0. This version requires Python 3.8 or greater.

#### Shell

[The `pants.backend.shell.lint.shfmt` backend](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/docs/shell#shfmt-autoformatter) now uses shfmt version 3.8.0 by default.

#### Yaml

Setting [the `orphan_files_behaviour = "ignore"` option](https://www.pantsbuild.org/2.22/reference/subsystems/yamllint#orphan_files_behavior) the `pants.backend.experimental.tools.yamllint` backend is now properly silent. It previously showed spurious warnings.

### Plugin API changes

The `PythonToolRequirementsBase` and `PythonToolBase` classes now have a new `help_short` field. Subclasses should now use `help_short` instead of the `help` field. The `help` field will be automatically generated using `help_short`, and will include the tool's default package version and provide instructions on how to override this version using a custom lockfile.

Target `Field` types can now have per instance default values, overriding the class var `default` value declared on the `Field` subclass by wrapping the field value in a `FieldDefaultValue` when creating the field instance.

## Full Changelog

For the full changelog, see the individual GitHub Releases for this series: https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/releases
