1.0.x Stable Releases
=====================

This document describes releases in the ``1.0.x`` series.

*NB: Since this was the first stable release of pants, this notes page does not include
the complete set of changes that occurred since the previous stable release (there hadn't
been one!)*

1.0.1 (05/31/2016)
------------------

The 1.0.1 release: there were no additional changes since the 1.0.1-rc0 release candidate.


1.0.1-rc0 (05/21/2016)
----------------------

This release contains a few performance and behaviour fixes since the 1.0.0 release.

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Add 'transitive' and 'scope' attributes to export of target
  `RB #3845 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3845>`_

* Upgrade to pex 1.1.6.
  `RB #3768 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3768>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Make pinger.py work with both HTTP and HTTPS.
  `RB #3904 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3904>`_

* Addresses should not equal things that are not addresses.
  `RB #3791 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3791>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Split release notes by release branch
  `RB #3890 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3890>`_
  `RB #3907 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3907>`_

* Use a set for the contains check in topo order path for invalidation
  `RB #3786 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3786>`_

* Scrooge gen: Cache resolved scrooge deps
  `RB #3790 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3790>`_


1.0.0 (05/01/2016)
------------------

The 1.0.0 release! The 1.0.0-rc3 release candidate was accepted without any additional changes.


1.0.0-rc3 (04/26/2016)
----------------------

Cherry pick fixes for problems found in RC1

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Rename check_published_deps to check-published-deps to be consistent with dashes in goal names
  `RB #3749 <https://rbcommons.com/twitter/r/3749>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* startswith() is the correct method for strings, not starts_with()
  `RB #3744 <https://rbcommons.com/twitter/r/3744>`_

1.0.0-rc1 (04/22/2016)
----------------------

This release has several changes related to documentation, CI fixes and work
in preparation for the 1.0 release.

* CI work to enable us to move to jenkins
* Documentation leading up to 1.0
* Engine work around handling of symlinks
* Set a global -Xmx default for JVMs
* improve cache hit rate with eager caching of zinc

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Add public api markers
  `RB #3727 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3727>`_

* Fix public API markers based on feedback
  `RB #3442 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3442>`_
  `RB #3718 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3718>`_


Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* A few fixes to config path computation, esp. in tests.
  `RB #3709 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3709>`_

* Fix built-in `graph_info` backend BUILD deps.
  `RB #3726 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3726>`_

* Improve android install robustness.
  `RB #3725 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3725>`_

* Fix `jvm_app` fingerprinting for bundles with non-existing files.
  `RB #3654 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3654>`_

* Fix `PEP8Error` `Nit` subclass line_range.
  `RB #3714 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3714>`_

* Fix import order issue.

* Some fixes to make tests more robust around jvm_options.
  `RB #3706 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3706>`_

* Fix a typo that caused problems with REPL in custom scala
  `RB #3703 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3703>`_

* Fix ProgressListener % progress.
  `RB #) <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3710/)>`_
  `RB #3712 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3712>`_


Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Write artifacts to the cache when vt.update() is called.
  `RB #3722 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3722>`_

* Bump the open file ulimit on OSX.
  `RB #3733 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3733>`_

* Skip intermittently failing test_multiprocess_engine_multi.
  `RB #3731 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3731>`_

* Doc running pants from sources in other repos.
  `RB #3715 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3715>`_

* Add quiz-up to the powered by page
  `RB #3732 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3732>`_

* Point Node preinstalled-project at a better URL.
  `RB #3710 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3710>`_

* Show details in the builddict.
  `RB #3708 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3708>`_

* Add the Phabricator .arcconfig file.
  `RB #3728 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3728>`_

* Use requests/Fetcher to fetch Node pre-installed's.
  `RB #3711 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3711>`_

 Add --bootstrap-ivy-settings option
  `RB #3700 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3700>`_

* Prioritize command line option error and add ConfigValidationError for option error differentiation.
  `RB #3721 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3721>`_

* Set a global -Xmx default for JVMs
  `RB #3705 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3705>`_

* Enforce that an option name isn't registered twice in a scope.
  `Issue #3200) <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/3200)>`_
  `RB #3695 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3695>`_


New Engine Work
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* [engine] Split engine docs from example docs
  `RB #3734 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3734>`_

* [engine] Only request literal Variants for Address objects
  `RB #3724 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3724>`_

* [engine] Implement symlink handling
  `Issue #3189)) <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/3189))>`_
  `RB #3691 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/3691>`_
