1.2.x Stable Releases
=====================

This document describes releases leading up to the ``1.2.x`` ``stable`` series.


1.2.1 (01/20/2017)
------------------

Promotion of the 1.2.1rc0 release to a stable release, with no changes.

1.2.1rc0 (12/19/2016)
---------------------

The first release candidate for stable 1.2.1: includes a backlog of recent fixes, particularly
for initialization issues with Task results_dirs. Additionally, includes native support for
running Scalatest tests via JUnit using Pants' junit_tests target type.

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Ensure that invalid vts have results_dir cleaned before passing to ta… (#4139)
  `PR #4139 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/pull/4139>`_

* Surface --dereference-symlinks flag to task caching level
  `RB #4338 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4338>`_

* Correction on [resolve.node]
  `RB #4364 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4364>`_

* Remove safe_mkdir on results_dir in [resolve.node]
  `RB #4362 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4362>`_

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Bump junit-runner to 1.0.16
  `RB #4381 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4381>`_

* Patch to make scala tests work
  `RB #4361 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4361>`_

1.2.0 (10/31/2016)
------------------

The stable ``1.2.0`` release! This is equivalent to the 1.2.0rc4 release from Friday.

The releases on this page encompass the complete list of changes since the previous
``stable`` release (``1.1.0``).

Thanks to the contributors!

1.2.0rc4 (10/27/2016)
---------------------

The fifth release candidate for stable 1.2.0, which includes a fix for the ``fmt.isort``
task and an important correctness fix for golang remote rev pinning. This release candidate
likely be elevated to the final 1.2.0 release tomorrow, barring any unexpected turbulence.

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Change default ./pants fmt.isort <empty> behavior to no-op; Add sources check for isort.
  `RB #4327 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4327>`_

* Bugfix: when synthesizing remote libraries in Go, pin them to the same rev as adjacent libs.
  `RB #4325 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4325>`_

1.2.0rc3 (10/20/2016)
---------------------

The fourth release candidate for stable 1.2.0, which limits the default targets affected
by scalafmt and includes Benjy's lovely "default source globs" patch.

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Fix erroneous deprecated scope warnings.
  `RB #4323 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4323>`_

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Allow targets to have sensible defaults for sources=.
  `RB #4300 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4300>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Add a target-types option to scalafmt to avoid formatting all targets
  `RB #4328 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4328>`_

1.2.0rc2 (10/18/2016)
---------------------

The third, and perhaps final, release candidate for stable 1.2.0.

Notably: this release candidate restores JDK7 compatibility for junit tests.

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Update junit runner to 1.0.15 to get java 7 compatibility
  `RB #4324 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4324>`_

* Back down the minimum required java version for running Pants tools to java 7
  `RB #4314 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4314>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Fix exclude_target_regexp breakage in test-changed and --files option breakage in changed with diffspec
  `RB #4321 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4321>`_

* Prevent cleanup error at end of pants test with --test-junit-html-report option, update safe_rmtree to be symlink aware
  `RB #4319 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4319>`_

* fix --changed-files option
  `RB #4309 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4309>`_

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Adding scalafmt formatting to fmt goal and enable by default
  `RB #4312 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4312>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* migrate changed integration tests to isolated temp git repos and add an environment variable to override buildroot
  `RB #4295 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4295>`_

1.2.0rc1 (10/13/2016)
---------------------

Second release candidate for stable 1.2.0.

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Add subsystem_utils to test_infra
  `RB #4303 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4303>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Switch default deference back to True for tarball artifact
  `RB #4304 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4304>`_

* Filter inactive goals from `Goal.all`.
  `RB #4298 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4298>`_

* JUnit runner fix for len(args) > max_args in argfile.safe_args
  `RB #4294 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4294>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Version clarification
  `RB #4299 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4299>`_

1.2.0rc0 (10/07/2016)
---------------------

First release candidate for stable 1.2.0.

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Make the name= target keyword optional in BUILD files.
  `RB #4275 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4275>`_

* Add Scalafmt Support to Pants
  `RB #4216 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4216>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Add libffi to pants pre-reqs, qualify JDK req.
  `RB #4285 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4285>`_

* Update the setup.py description.
  `RB #4283 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4283>`_

* Refactor Intermediate Target Generation Logic
  `RB #4277 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4277>`_

* Clean up after failed artifact extractions
  `RB #4255 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4255>`_

* Publish the CPP plugin
  `RB #4282 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4282>`_

* Change --no-dryrun to the new flag in docs
  `RB #4280 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4280>`_

* Add --no-transitive flag to findbugs so you can run findbugs only for the targets specified on the command line
  `RB #4276 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4276>`_

New Engine Work
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* [engine] Rule Graph construction perf improvements
  `RB #4281 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4281>`_

* [engine] Introduce static analysis model and replace validator with it
  `RB #4251 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4251>`_


1.2.0dev12 (9/30/2016)
----------------------

Regularly scheduled unstable release, highlighted by engine work and OSX 10.12 support.
Thanks to the contributors!

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~
* Remove deprecated `from_target` usage in examples.
  `RB #4262 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4262>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* show deprecation warning for options given in env and config
  `RB #4272 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4272>`_

* Update binary_util OS map for OSX Sierra.
  `RB #4266 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4266>`_

* Make LegacyAddressMapper v2 engine backed
  `RB #4239 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4239>`_

* Upgrade to junit-runner 1.0.14.
  `RB #4264 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4264>`_

* Fix handling of method specs.
  `RB #4258 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4258>`_

* Factor workunit failure into final exit code.
  `RB #4244 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4244>`_

New Engine Work
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* [engine] Iterative improvements for`changed` and friends.
  `RB #4269 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4269>`_

* [engine] Allow injecting of intrinsic providers to ease testing
  `RB #4263 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4263>`_

* [engine] When requesting select nodes or regular nodes, return state values rather than requiring a separate call
  `RB #4261 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4261>`_

* [engine] Introduce TypeConstraint#satisfied_by_type
  `RB #4260 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4260>`_


1.2.0dev11 (9/23/2016)
----------------------

Regularly scheduled unstable release.

Heads up!: this release contains a change to an important default value for those who
use pants to build scala codebases. The default ``--scala-platform-version`` has changed
from ``2.10`` to ``2.11``. If you do not set this value in your pants.ini (highly recommended!)
this may result in a surprise scala upgrade for you.

Thanks to the contributors!

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Bump default scala platform version to 2.11
  `RB #4256 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4256>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Clean up analysis.tmp usage between pants and zinc wrapper (Part 1)
  `Issue #3667 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/3667>`_
  `RB #4245 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4245>`_

* Clean up analysis.tmp usage between pants and zinc wrapper (Part 2)
  `RB #4246 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4246>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Update minimum JDK requirements.
  `RB #4127 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4127>`_
  `RB #4253 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4253>`_

New Engine Work
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* [engine] Move subselectors to selector properties
  `RB #4235 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4235>`_

* [engine] Daemon cacheable `changed`.
  `RB #4207 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4207>`_

1.2.0dev10 (9/20/2016)
----------------------
Regularly scheduled unstable release. Thanks to the contributors!
Version bump, previous release only did a partial upload.

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~
* Correct Pants's incorrect guesses for go source roots.
  `RB #4247 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4247>`_

* Fix ng-killall by swallowing psutil exceptions in filter
  `RB #4237 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4237>`_

* Fix for idea-plugin goal that generates too long project filename
  `RB #4231 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4231>`_

* wrapped globs excludes - include incorrect arg in error message
  `RB #4232 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4232>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Inject an automatic dep on junit for all junit_tests targets.
  `RB #4228 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4228>`_

* Simplify failed test reporting.
  `RB #4240 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4240>`_

* Fixup the simple plugin setup docs.
  `RB #4241 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4241>`_

* Add description to type constraints
  `RB #4233 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4233>`_

* Differentiate between source root categories.
  `RB #4230 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4230>`_

* Restore ChangedTargetGoalsIntegrationTest.
  `RB #4227 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4227>`_

* Deprecate the `subsystem_instance` utility function.
  `RB #4220 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4220>`_

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Add a timeout to scalajs tests
  `RB #4229 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4229>`_

* Disallow absolute file paths in specs in BUILD files
  `RB #4221 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4221>`_

New Engine Work
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* [engine] Convert all isinstance product checks to using Exactly type constraints
  `RB #4236 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4236>`_

* [engine] Check that types passed to TypeConstraint inits are in fact types
  `RB #4209 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4209>`_

1.2.0dev9 (9/12/2016)
----------------------
Regularly scheduled unstable release. Thanks to the contributors!
Version bump, previous release only did a partial upload.

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~
* Re-enable test_junit_tests_using_cucumber.
  `RB #4212 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4212>`_

* Reset subsystem state for integration tests.
  `RB #4219 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4219>`_

* Remove spurious pants.pex file that somehow ended up in the repo.
  `RB #4214 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4214>`_
  `RB #4218 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4218>`_

* Fix a non-determinism I added in the ANTLR support
  `RB #4187 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4187>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Edit Greeting{,Test}.java to get a known edit sha for tests.
  `RB #4217 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4217>`_

* Refactor memoization of the global distribution locator.
  `RB #4214 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4214>`_

* Clean up junit xml report file location logic.
  `RB #4211 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4211>`_

* Upgrade default go to 1.7.1.
  `RB #4210 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4210>`_

* Make util.objects.datatype classes not iterable
  `RB #4163 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4163>`_

1.2.0dev8 (09/02/2016)
----------------------

Regularly scheduled unstable release. Thanks to the contributors!
Version bump, previous release only did a partial upload.

1.2.0dev7 (09/02/2016)
----------------------

Regularly scheduled unstable release. Thanks to the contributors!

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~
* [jvm-compile][bug] Fixes other target's class dir ending up on classpath
  `RB #4198 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4198>`_

* Fixed bugs in Go thrift generation with services
  `RB #4177 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4177>`_

New Engine Work
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* [engine] Add Runnable State
  `RB #4158 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4158>`_

* [engine] Don't filter directories in watchman subscription
  `RB #4095 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4095>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Eliminate all direct use of pytest.
  `RB #4201 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4201>`_

* Update pants versioning to use python's packaging.version
  `RB #4200 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4200>`_

* [jvm-compile][test] Add test explicitly checking classpath for z.jars
  `RB #4199 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4199>`_

* Plumb fetch timeout through `BinaryUtil`.
  `RB #4196 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4196>`_

* Upgrade default go to 1.7.
  `RB #4195 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4195>`_

* Fixup `PythonTarget` `resource_targets` docs.
  `RB #4148 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4148>`_

* Customize tarfile module next() method
  `RB #4123 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4123>`_

1.2.0-dev6 (8/26/2016)
----------------------

Regularly scheduled unstable release. Thanks to the contributors!

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* A clear error message for checkstyle misconfiguration.
  `RB #4176 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4176>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Performance fix for consolidated classpath
  `RB #4184 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4184>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Refactor classpath consolidation into a separate task.
  `RB #4152 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4152>`_

* Refactor idea-plugin goal
  `RB #4159 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4159>`_

* Remove all calls to create_subsystem() in tests.
  `RB #4178 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4178>`_

New Engine Work
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Support exclude_target_regexps and ignore_patterns in v2 engine
  `RB #4172 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4172>`_

1.2.0-dev5 (8/19/2016)
----------------------

Regularly scheduled unstable release.

New Engine Work
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Defer daemon-wise `LegacyBuildGraph` construction to post-fork.
  `RB #4168 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4168>`_

* [engine] Validate that variant_key of SelectVariant is string type git_shat msg: 5a7e838d512069a24d12ec0b7dcdc7b7d5bdfa3b
  `RB #4149 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4149>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Adjust the output file locations for the Antlr task.
  `RB #4161 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4161>`_

* build dictionary: one description per arg is plenty
  `RB #4164 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4164>`_

1.2.0-dev4 (8/12/2016)
----------------------

Regularly scheduled unstable release.

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Introduce fmt goal, isort subgoal
  `RB #4134 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4134>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Fix GitTest control of git `user.email`.
  `RB #4146 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4146>`_

* Restore publishing of the docsite during releases
  `RB #4140 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4140>`_

New Engine Work
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* [engine] Fix bundle rel_path handling in engine
  `RB #4150 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4150>`_

* [engine] Fix running changed with v2 flag; Replace context address_mapper; Fix excludes filespecs in engine globs.
  `RB #4114 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4114>`_

* Fix BundleAdaptor to BundleProps Conversion
  `RB #4057 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4057>`_
  `RB #4129 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4129>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Eliminate use of mox in favor of mock.
  `RB #4143 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4143>`_

* Convert FetcherTest to use mock instead of mox.
  `RB #4142 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4142>`_

* [jvm-compile] narrow compile dependencies from full closure to just next nearest invalid compilation targets
  `RB #4136 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4136>`_


1.2.0-dev3 (8/7/2016)
---------------------

Unscheduled extra unstable release.

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Move the custom javac option to the Java subsystem.
  `RB #4141 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4141>`_


1.2.0-dev2 (8/5/2016)
---------------------

Regularly scheduled unstable release.

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Upgrade travis ci to use jdk 8
  `RB #4127 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4127>`_

* Additional checks for module type determination.
  `RB #4131 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4131>`_


1.2.0-dev1 (7/30/2016)
----------------------

Regularly scheduled unstable release.

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Allow specification of an alternate javac location.
  `RB #4124 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4124>`_

* Add support to Fetcher for `file:` URLs.
  `RB #4099 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4099>`_

* JSON output format for Pants options
  `RB #4113 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4113>`_


API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~


Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* Avoid clobbering `type_alias` kwarg in the `Registrar` if already explicitly set.
  `RB #4106 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4106>`_

* Fix JUnit -fail-fast, add test for early exit hook and remove unused code
  `RB #4060 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4060>`_
  `RB #4081 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4081>`_

* Fixup the 1.1.x notes, which were not being rendered on the site, and contained rendering errors.
  `RB #4098 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4098>`_


New Engine Work
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Ensure target `resources=` ordering is respected in the v2 engine.
  `RB #4128 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4128>`_

* [engine] Pass selectors to select nodes; Use selectors in error messages
  `RB #4031 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4031>`_

* Remove Duplicates in File System tasks in v2 Engine
  `RB #4096 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4096>`_



Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* A custom version of com.sun.tools.javac.api.JavacTool.
  `RB #4122 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4122>`_

* Time out Jenkins shards after 60 minutes.
  `RB #4082 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4082>`_

* Eliminate file listing ordering assumptions.
  `RB #4121 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4121>`_

* Upgrade the pants bootstrap venv to 15.0.2.
  `RB #4120 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4120>`_

* Bump default wheel version to latest.
  `RB #4116 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4116>`_

* Remove warnings from the release process.
  `RB #4119 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4119>`_

* Upgrade default go to 1.6.3.
  `RB #4115 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4115>`_

* Added a page on policies for pants committers
  `RB #4105 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4105>`_

* Cleanup `BinaryUtil`.
  `RB #4108 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4108>`_

* Update junit-runner to version 1.0.13
  `RB #4102 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4102>`_
  `RB #4101 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4101>`_
  `RB #4091 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4091>`_
  `RB #4081 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4081>`_
  `RB #4107 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4107>`_

* Enable autoFlush for JUnit printstream so we get output as the tests run
  `RB #4101 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4101>`_
  `RB #4102 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4102>`_

* Print a message for cycles in the graph when computing the target fingerprint
  `RB #4087 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4087>`_

* Pin remaining core-sensitive options.
  `RB #4100 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4100>`_
  `RB #4104 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4104>`_

* Set the encoding for javac in pantsbuild/pants
  `Issue #3702 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/3702>`_
  `RB #4103 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4103>`_

* Customize pants settings for Jenkins.
  `RB #4101 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4101>`_
  `RB #4100 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4100>`_

* Buffer the ConsoleRunner's use of stdio.
  `RB #4101 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4101>`_

* Extract `safe_args` to a jvm backend module.
  `RB #4090 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4090>`_

* Move `ui_open` into its own `util` module.
  `RB #4089 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4089>`_

* Simplify `ConcurrentRunnerScheduler` & cleanup.
  `RB #4091 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4091>`_


1.2.0-dev0 (7/18/2016)
----------------------

Regularly scheduled unstable release! Unstable releases from master will use the
``dev`` suffix from now on (see `#3382 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/3382>`_).

New Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

None this week!

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~

* Bump Junit Runner to 1.0.12
  `RB #4072 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4072>`_
  `RB #4026 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4026>`_
  `RB #4047 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4047>`_

* Support for Tasks to request optional product requirements.
  `RB #4071 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4071>`_

Bugfixes
~~~~~~~~

* RGlobs.to_filespec should generate filespecs that match git spec
  `RB #4078 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4078>`_

* ivy runner make a copy of jvm_options before mutating it
  `RB #4080 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4080>`_

* Log exceptions from testRunFinished() in our listener
  `Issue #3638 <https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/3638>`_
  `RB #4060 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4060>`_

* Fix problems with unicode in junit XML output when writing to HTML report
  `RB #4051 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4051>`_

* [bugfix] Fix `remote_sources()` targets dependency injection.
  `RB #4052 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4052>`_

New Engine Work
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Convert BundleAdaptor to BundleProps during JvmApp target creation
  `RB #4057 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4057>`_

* Repair pantsd+watchman integration test flakiness.
  `RB #4067 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4067>`_

* [engine] Isolated Process Execution - First Cut
  `RB #4029 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4029>`_

Refactoring, Improvements, and Tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Use ProjectTree in SourceRoots.all_roots().
  `RB #4079 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4079>`_

* Add a note indicating that scope=forced is available beginning in 1.1.0
  `RB #4070 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4070>`_

* Update version numbering and clarify notes updates
  `RB #4069 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4069>`_

* Improve deprecation warning for default backend option reliance.
  `RB #4061 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4061>`_
  `RB #4053 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4053>`_

* Cleanup the annotation test project code
  `RB #4056 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4056>`_

* Add documentation for scopes
  `RB #4050 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4050>`_

* Add collection literals note to styleguide
  `RB #4028 <https://rbcommons.com/s/twitter/r/4028>`_
