Using Pants with Thrift Dependencies
====================================

[Apache Thrift](http://thrift.apache.org/) is a popular framework for
working with data types and service interfaces. It uses an Interface
Definition Language (IDL) to define these types and interfaces. There
are tools to generate code in "real" programming languages from Thrift
IDL files. Two programs, perhaps in different programming languages,
should be able to communicate over Thrift interfaces by using this
generated code.

Pants knows Thrift. For each Thrift file you use, your codebase has some
`BUILD` targets that represent "real" code generated from IDL code. You
can write code in your favorite language that imports the generated
code. To make the import work, your code's `BUILD` target depends on the
appropriate Thrift `BUILD` target.

Generating Code
---------------

You have some Thrift; you want to use it from your "regular" programming
language. Normally, to make, e.g., Java code usable, you set up a
`java_library` target with sources `*.java` and then depend on that
target; Thrift works similarly, but you use a different target type that
generates Java code from `*.thrift`. You can define Java, Python, or
Scala library targets whose code is Thrift-generated by setting up
*lang*\_thrift\_library targets. (Scala is tricky; you use a
`java_thrift_library` with carefully-chosen parameters.) Other targets
can depend on a *lang*\_thrift\_library and their code can then import
the generated code.

### Target Example

This example sets up a `java_thrift_library` target; its source is
Thrift; it generates Java.

    :::python
    # Target defined in src/thrift/com/twitter/mybird/BUILD:
    java_thrift_library(name='mybird',
      # Specify dependencies for thrift IDL file includes.
      dependencies=[
        'src/thrift/com/twitter/otherbird',
      ],
      sources=globs('*.thrift')
    )

Pants knows that before it compiles such a target, it must first
generate Java code from the Thrift IDL files. Users can depend on this
target like any other internal target. In this case, users would add a
dependency on `'src/thrift/com/twitter/mybird'`.

One *lang*\_thrift\_library can depend on another; use this if one of
your Thrift files `include`s a Thrift file that lives in another target.

### Configuring

Here are some popular `*_thrift_library` configurations:

**Java**

Use Apache Thrift compiler (the default):

    :::python
    java_thrift_library(...)

...or Scrooge:

    :::python
    java_thrift_library(
      compiler='scrooge')

**Python**

    :::python
    python_thrift_library(...)

**Scala**

    :::python
    java_thrift_library(  # Yes, a "java" library to generate Scala
      compiler='scrooge', # default compiler does not gen Scala; Scrooge does
      language='scala',
      # maybe set an rpc_style
    )

**Android**

Scrooge compiler can now generate java code with a limited number of getters and
setters which is more suitable for Android applications which have a 65K limit on the
number of methods.

    :::python
    java_thrift_library(  # Yes, a "java" library to generate Scala
      compiler='scrooge', # default compiler does not gen android; Scrooge does
      language='android',
    )


Thrift Example
--------------

Let's look at some sample code that puts all of this together.

-   Thrift IDL code (`.thrift` files)
-   `BUILD` targets for the Thrift IDL code
-   Java code that `import`s code generated from Thrift
-   `BUILD` target dependencies that allow that `import`

### Thrift IDL

Our example uses two Thrift files, one of which `include`s the other. They look pretty ordinary.
The `include`d Thrift, `examples/src/thrift/org/pantsbuild/example/distance/distance.thrift`, is
regular Thrift:

!inc(distance/distance.thrift)

The `include`ing Thrift,
`examples/src/thrift/org/pantsbuild/example/precipitation/precipitation.thrift`,
also looks ordinary. (The include path is a little tricky: it's based on source roots.
Thus, if your source tree has more than one root `foo` and `bar` and has Thrift in both,
code in foo can `include` code from `bar` without mentioning `bar` in the include path.):

!inc(precipitation/precipitation.thrift)

### BUILD Targets

In a `BUILD` file, we use a `java_thrift_library` or
`python_thrift_library` to generate "real" code from Thrift. Our example
just uses Java; thus, the `BUILD` file for `distance.thrift` looks like

!inc[start-after=cd ../precipitation](distance/BUILD)

Notice the target type is
<a pantsref="bdict_java_thrift_library">java_thrift_library</a>,
and this target staked its claim to our distance thrift IDL file.
JVM library targets
(e.g.:
<a pantsref="bdict_java_library">`java_library`</a>,
<a pantsref="bdict_scala_library">`scala_library`</a>) that depend on this
target will simply see generated code from the IDL. Since no additional
options are specified we use the defaults; however, if we need more
control over how code is generated we control that through arguments
provided by
<a pantsref="bdict_java_thrift_library">java_thrift_library</a>.

> **note**
>
> While the name `java_thrift_library` might make you think it generates
> Java, it can also generate other target languages via the `language`
> parameter (scala for example). For Python code, however, use
> <a pantsref="bdict_python_thrift_library">python_thrift_library</a>.

As with "regular" languages, for one target's code to include another's,
a target should have the other in its `dependencies`. Thus, to allow
`precipitation.thrift` to depend on `distance.thrift`, we set up
`.../precipitation/BUILD` like so:

!inc[start-after=includes other thrift](precipitation/BUILD)

### Using in "Regular" Code

We want to use the Thrift-generated interface from "regular" code. In
this Java example, we want to `import` the generated code. In our Java,
the `import` statements use the names from the `.thrift` files'
`namespace`s:

!inc[start-after=from Java.](../../../../../tests/java/org/pantsbuild/example/usethrift/UseThriftTest.java)

As usual, for code in one target to use code from another, one target
needs to depend on the other. Thus, our Java code's target has the
`*_thrift_library` target whose code it uses in its dependencies:

!inc[start-after=using Thrift from Java, though.](../../../../../tests/java/org/pantsbuild/example/usethrift/BUILD)

Publishing
----------

Publishing a *lang*\_thrift\_library is like
[[publishing a "regular" library|pants('src/docs:publish')]]
The targets use `provides`
parameters. It might look something like:

    :::python
    java_thrift_library(name='eureka-java',
      sources=['eureka.thrift'],
      dependencies=[
        'src/thrift/org/archimedes/volume:volume-java',
      ],
      language='java',
      provides=artifact(
        org='org.archimedes',
        name='eureka-java',
        repo='BUILD.archimedes:jar-public',
    ))

    java_thrift_library(name='eureka-scala',
      sources=['eureka.thrift'],
      dependencies=[
        'src/thrift/org/archimedes/volume:volume-scala',
      ],
      compiler='scrooge',
      language='scala',
      provides=artifact(
        org='org.archimedes',
        name='eureka-scala',
        repo='BUILD.archimedes:jar-public',
      ))
