docs/docs/python/goals/check.mdx, before:

---
    title: check
    sidebar_position: 0
---

How to use MyPy.

---

## Activating MyPy

To opt-in, add `pants.backend.python.typecheck.mypy` to `backend_packages` in your config file.

```toml title="pants.toml"
[GLOBAL]
backend_packages.add = [
  "pants.backend.python",
  "pants.backend.python.typecheck.mypy",
]
```

This will register a new `check` goal:

```bash
$ pants check helloworld/util/lang.py
$ pants check ::
```

:::tip Benefit of Pants: typecheck Python 2-only and Python 3-only code at the same time
MyPy determines which Python version to use based on its `python_version` option. If that's undefined, MyPy uses the interpreter the tool is run with. Because you can only use one config file at a time with MyPy, you cannot normally say to use `2.7` for part of your codebase but `3.6` for the rest; you must choose a single version.

Instead, Pants will group your targets based on their [interpreter constraints](../overview/interpreter-compatibility.mdx), and run all the Python 2 targets together and all the Python 3 targets together. It will automatically set `python_version` to the minimum compatible interpreter, such as a constraint like `["==2.7.*", ">3.6"]` using `2.7`.

To turn this off, you can still set `python_version` in `mypy.ini` or `--python-version`/`--py2` in `--mypy-args`; Pants will respect the value you set.
:::

### Hook up a MyPy config file

Pants will automatically include your config file if it's located at `mypy.ini`, `.mypy.ini`, `setup.cfg`, or `pyproject.toml`.

Otherwise, you must set the option `[mypy].config` for Pants to include the config file in the process's sandbox and to instruct MyPy to load it.

```toml title="pants.toml"
[mypy]
config = "build-support/mypy.ini"
```

### Change the MyPy version

Use the `install_from_resolve` option in the `[mypy]` scope:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[python.resolves]
mypy = "3rdparty/python/mypy.lock"

[mypy]
install_from_resolve = "mypy"
```

See [Lockfiles for tools](../overview/lockfiles.mdx#lockfiles-for-tools).

### Incrementally adopt MyPy with `skip_mypy=True`

You can tell Pants to skip running MyPy on certain files by adding `skip_mypy=True` to the relevant targets.

```python title="project/BUILD"
# Skip MyPy for all the Python files in this directory
# (both test and non-test files).
python_sources(name="lib", skip_mypy=True)
python_tests(name="tests", skip_mypy=True)

# To only skip certain files, use the `overrides` field.
python_sources(
    name="lib",
    overrides={
        "util.py": {"skip_mypy": True},
        # Use a tuple to specify multiple files.
        ("user.py", "admin.py"): {"skip_mypy": True},
    },
)
```

When you run `pants check ::`, Pants will skip any files belonging to skipped targets.

:::caution MyPy may still try to check the skipped files!
The `skip_mypy` field only tells Pants not to provide the skipped files as direct input to MyPy. But MyPy, by default, will still try to check files that are [dependencies of the direct inputs](https://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/running_mypy.html#following-imports). So if your skipped files are dependencies of unskipped files, they may still be checked.

To change this behavior, use MyPy's [`--follow-imports` option](https://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/command_line.html#cmdoption-mypy-follow-imports), typically by setting it to `silent`. You can do so either by adding it to the [`args` option](../../../reference/subsystems/mypy.mdx#section-args) in the `[mypy]` section of your Pants config file, or by setting it in [`mypy.ini`](https://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/config_file.html).
:::

### First-party type stubs (`.pyi` files)

You can use [`.pyi` files](https://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/stubs.html) for both first-party and third-party code. Include the `.pyi` files in the `sources` field for `python_source` / `python_sources` and `python_test` / `python_tests` targets. MyPy will use these stubs rather than looking at the implementation.

Pants's dependency inference knows to infer a dependency both on the implementation and the type stub. You can verify this by running `pants dependencies path/to/file.py`.

When writing stubs for third-party libraries, you may need to set up the `[source].root_patterns` option so that [source roots](../../using-pants/key-concepts/source-roots.mdx) are properly stripped. For example:

```toml tab={"label":"pants.toml"}
[source]
root_patterns = ["mypy-stubs", "src/python"]
```

```python tab={"label":"mypy-stubs/colors.pyi"}
# Because we set `mypy-stubs` as a source root, this file will be
# stripped to be simply `colors.pyi`. MyPy will look at this file for
# imports of the `colors` module.

def red(s: str) -> str: ...
```

```python tab={"label":"mypy-stubs/BUILD"}
python_sources(name="lib")
```

```python tab={"label":"src/python/project/app.py"}
from colors import red

if __name__ == "__main__":
    print(red("I'm red!"))
```

```python tab={"label":"src/python/project/BUILD"}
# Pants will infer a dependency both on the `ansicolors` requirement
# and our type stub.
python_sources(name="lib")
```

### Third-party type stubs

You can install third-party type stubs (for example, `types-requests`) like [normal Python requirements](../overview/third-party-dependencies.mdx). Pants will infer a dependency on both the type stub and the actual dependency, for example, both `types-requests` and `requests`, which you can confirm by running `pants dependencies path/to/f.py`.

If you install MyPy from a [custom lockfile](../overview/lockfiles.mdx#lockfiles-for-tools) you can also add type stub requirements to that lockfile.
This ensures that the stubs are only used when running MyPy and are not included when, for example,
[packaging a PEX](./package.mdx).

### Add a third-party plugin

Add any third-party MyPy plugins to a [custom lockfile](../overview/lockfiles.mdx#lockfiles-for-tools):

```toml tab={"label":"pants.toml"}
[python.resolves]
mypy = "3rdparty/python/mypy-lock.txt"

[mypy]
install_from_resolve = "mypy"
```

```text tab={"label":"3rdparty/python/mypy-requirements.txt"}
mypy==1.3.0
pydantic==1.6.1
```

```python tab={"label":"3rdparty/python/BUILD"}
python_requirements(
    name="mypy",
    source="mypy-requirements.txt",
    resolve="mypy",
)
```

Then update your `mypy.ini` to load the plugin:

```text title="mypy.ini"
[mypy]
plugins =
    pydantic.mypy
```

For some plugins, such as `django-stubs`, you may need to always load certain source files, such as a `settings.py` file. You can make sure that this source file is always used by hijacking the `source_plugins` option, which allows you to specify targets whose `sources` should always be used when running MyPy. See the section below for more information about source plugins.

For example, to fully use the `django-stubs` plugin, your setup might look like this:

```toml tab={"label":"pants.toml"}
[source]
root_patterns = ["src/python"]

[mypy]
install_from_resolve = "mypy"
source_plugins = ["src/python/project:django_settings"]
```

```text tab={"label":"3rdparty/python/mypy-requirements.txt"}
mypy==1.3.0
django-stubs==1.5.0
```

```python tab={"label":"3rdparty/python/BUILD"}
python_requirements(
    name="mypy",
    source="mypy-requirements.txt",
    resolve="mypy",
)
```

```text tab={"label":"mypy.ini"}
[mypy]
plugins =
    mypy_django_plugin.main

[mypy.plugins.django-stubs]
django_settings_module = project.django_settings
```

```python tab={"label":"src/python/project/django_settings.py"}
from django.urls import URLPattern

DEBUG = True
DEFAULT_FROM_EMAIL = "webmaster@example.com"
SECRET_KEY = "not so secret"
MY_SETTING = URLPattern(pattern="foo", callback=lambda: None)
```

```python tab={"label":"src/python/project/BUILD"}
python_source(name="django_settings", source="django_settings.py")
```

:::caution Importing type stubs
Type stubs specified in the MyPy custom lockfile are not visible to the `python-infer` subsystem, and cannot be referenced as explicit `dependencies`. If you `import` from a stubs module in your code, and it does not have a corresponding implementation `python_requirement` target that provides the imported module, you may see a warning/error depending on the value you've configured for `[python-infer].unowned_dependency_behavior`. Goals other than `check` will also raise `ImportError`s if the `import` isn't conditional on the value of `typing.TYPE_CHECKING`:

```toml tab={"label":"pants.toml"}
[python-infer]
unowned_dependency_behavior = "warning"
[mypy]
install_from_resolve = "mypy"
```

```text tab={"label":"3rdparty/python/mypy-requirements.txt"}
mypy==1.3.0
mypy_boto3_ec2==1.26.136
```

```python tab={"label":"3rdparty/python/BUILD"}
python_requirements(
name="mypy",
source="mypy-requirements.txt",
resolve="mypy",
)
```

```python tab={"label":"src/example.py"}
from typing import TYPE_CHECKING

# Unsafe! Will fail outside of `check`
from mypy_boto3_ec2 import EC2Client

if TYPE_CHECKING:
    # Safe, but will be flagged as a warning
    from mypy_boto3_ec2 import EC2ServiceResource
```

For these reasons, it's recommended to load any type-stub libraries that require explicit imports as part of your normal [third-party dependencies](../overview/third-party-dependencies.mdx). Alternatively, you can set `# pants: no-infer-dep` on the lines of type-stub imports "guarded" by a check of `if TYPE_CHECKING`.
:::

:::note MyPy Protobuf support
Add `mypy_plugin = true` to the `[python-protobuf]` scope. See [Protobuf](../integrations/protobuf-and-grpc.mdx) for more information.
:::

### Add a first-party plugin

To add a [MyPy plugin](https://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/extending_mypy.html) you wrote, add a `python_source` or `python_sources` target with the plugin's Python file(s) included in the `sources` field.

Then, add `plugins = path.to.module` to your MyPy config file, using the name of the module without source roots. For example, if your Python file is called `pants-plugins/mypy_plugins/custom_plugin.py`, and you set `pants-plugins` as a source root, then set `plugins = mypy_plugins.custom_plugin`. Set the `config` option in the `[mypy]` scope in your `pants.toml` to point to your MyPy config file.

Finally, set the option `source_plugins` in the `[mypy]` scope to include this target's address, e.g. `source_plugins = ["pants-plugins/mypy_plugins:plugin"]`. This will ensure that your plugin's sources are always included in the subprocess.

For example:

```toml tab={"label":"pants.toml"}
[mypy]
source_plugins = ["pants-plugins/mypy_plugins:plugin"]
```

```text tab={"label":"mypy.ini"}
plugins =
    mypy_plugins.change_return_type
```

```python tab={"label":"pants-plugins/mypy_plugins/BUILD"}
python_source(name="plugin", source="change_return_type.py")
```

```python tab={"label":"pants-plugins/mypy_plugins/change_return_type.py"}
"""A contrived plugin that changes the return type of any
function ending in `__overriden_by_plugin` to return None."""

from typing import Callable, Optional, Type

from mypy.plugin import FunctionContext, Plugin
from mypy.types import NoneType, Type as MyPyType

from plugins.subdir.dep import is_overridable_function

class ChangeReturnTypePlugin(Plugin):
    def get_function_hook(
        self, fullname: str
    ) -> Optional[Callable[[FunctionContext], MyPyType]]:
        return hook if name.endswith("__overridden_by_plugin") else None


def hook(ctx: FunctionContext) -> MyPyType:
    return NoneType()


def plugin(_version: str) -> Type[Plugin]:
    return ChangeReturnTypePlugin
```

Because this is a `python_source` or `python_sources` target, Pants will treat this code like your other Python files, such as running linters on it or allowing you to write a `python_distribution` target to distribute the plugin externally.

### Reports

MyPy can generate [various report files](https://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/command_line.html#report-generation).

For Pants to properly preserve the reports, instruct MyPy to write to the `reports/` folder by updating its config file or `--mypy-args`. For example, in your pants.toml:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[mypy]
args = ["--linecount-report=reports"]
```

Pants will copy all reports into the folder `dist/check/mypy`.

## Known limitations

### Performance is sometimes slower than normal

Pants 2.14 added support for leveraging MyPy's cache, making subsequent runs of MyPy extremely performant.
The support, however, requires features that were added to MyPy in version `0.700`, and requires that
`python_version` isn't set in MyPy's config or in `[mypy].args`.

If you're using a version of MyPy older than `0.700`, consider upgrading to unlock super-speedy subsequent runs of MyPy.
Additionally consider not providing `python_version` in your config or args.

## Tip: only run over changed files and their dependents

When changing type hints code, you not only need to run over the changed files, but also any code that depends on the changed files:

```bash
$ pants --changed-since=HEAD --changed-dependents=transitive check
```

See [Advanced target selection](../../using-pants/advanced-target-selection.mdx) for more information.

Commit message:

Change MyPy docs for third-party type stubs (#21122)
While the docs say that type stubs can be installed in the same resolve
as MyPy, this is not true. We should fix the docs to correctly state
where type stubs need to be installed.

Related issues:

https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/21114
https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/20259#issuecomment-1962236113

docs/docs/python/goals/check.mdx, after:

---
    title: check
    sidebar_position: 0
---

How to use MyPy.

---

## Activating MyPy

To opt-in, add `pants.backend.python.typecheck.mypy` to `backend_packages` in your config file.

```toml title="pants.toml"
[GLOBAL]
backend_packages.add = [
  "pants.backend.python",
  "pants.backend.python.typecheck.mypy",
]
```

This will register a new `check` goal:

```bash
$ pants check helloworld/util/lang.py
$ pants check ::
```

:::tip Benefit of Pants: typecheck Python 2-only and Python 3-only code at the same time
MyPy determines which Python version to use based on its `python_version` option. If that's undefined, MyPy uses the interpreter the tool is run with. Because you can only use one config file at a time with MyPy, you cannot normally say to use `2.7` for part of your codebase but `3.6` for the rest; you must choose a single version.

Instead, Pants will group your targets based on their [interpreter constraints](../overview/interpreter-compatibility.mdx), and run all the Python 2 targets together and all the Python 3 targets together. It will automatically set `python_version` to the minimum compatible interpreter, such as a constraint like `["==2.7.*", ">3.6"]` using `2.7`.

To turn this off, you can still set `python_version` in `mypy.ini` or `--python-version`/`--py2` in `--mypy-args`; Pants will respect the value you set.
:::

### Hook up a MyPy config file

Pants will automatically include your config file if it's located at `mypy.ini`, `.mypy.ini`, `setup.cfg`, or `pyproject.toml`.

Otherwise, you must set the option `[mypy].config` for Pants to include the config file in the process's sandbox and to instruct MyPy to load it.

```toml title="pants.toml"
[mypy]
config = "build-support/mypy.ini"
```

### Change the MyPy version

Use the `install_from_resolve` option in the `[mypy]` scope:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[python.resolves]
mypy = "3rdparty/python/mypy.lock"

[mypy]
install_from_resolve = "mypy"
```

See [Lockfiles for tools](../overview/lockfiles.mdx#lockfiles-for-tools).

### Incrementally adopt MyPy with `skip_mypy=True`

You can tell Pants to skip running MyPy on certain files by adding `skip_mypy=True` to the relevant targets.

```python title="project/BUILD"
# Skip MyPy for all the Python files in this directory
# (both test and non-test files).
python_sources(name="lib", skip_mypy=True)
python_tests(name="tests", skip_mypy=True)

# To only skip certain files, use the `overrides` field.
python_sources(
    name="lib",
    overrides={
        "util.py": {"skip_mypy": True},
        # Use a tuple to specify multiple files.
        ("user.py", "admin.py"): {"skip_mypy": True},
    },
)
```

When you run `pants check ::`, Pants will skip any files belonging to skipped targets.

:::caution MyPy may still try to check the skipped files!
The `skip_mypy` field only tells Pants not to provide the skipped files as direct input to MyPy. But MyPy, by default, will still try to check files that are [dependencies of the direct inputs](https://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/running_mypy.html#following-imports). So if your skipped files are dependencies of unskipped files, they may still be checked.

To change this behavior, use MyPy's [`--follow-imports` option](https://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/command_line.html#cmdoption-mypy-follow-imports), typically by setting it to `silent`. You can do so either by adding it to the [`args` option](../../../reference/subsystems/mypy.mdx#section-args) in the `[mypy]` section of your Pants config file, or by setting it in [`mypy.ini`](https://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/config_file.html).
:::

### First-party type stubs (`.pyi` files)

You can use [`.pyi` files](https://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/stubs.html) for both first-party and third-party code. Include the `.pyi` files in the `sources` field for `python_source` / `python_sources` and `python_test` / `python_tests` targets. MyPy will use these stubs rather than looking at the implementation.

Pants's dependency inference knows to infer a dependency both on the implementation and the type stub. You can verify this by running `pants dependencies path/to/file.py`.

When writing stubs for third-party libraries, you may need to set up the `[source].root_patterns` option so that [source roots](../../using-pants/key-concepts/source-roots.mdx) are properly stripped. For example:

```toml tab={"label":"pants.toml"}
[source]
root_patterns = ["mypy-stubs", "src/python"]
```

```python tab={"label":"mypy-stubs/colors.pyi"}
# Because we set `mypy-stubs` as a source root, this file will be
# stripped to be simply `colors.pyi`. MyPy will look at this file for
# imports of the `colors` module.

def red(s: str) -> str: ...
```

```python tab={"label":"mypy-stubs/BUILD"}
python_sources(name="lib")
```

```python tab={"label":"src/python/project/app.py"}
from colors import red

if __name__ == "__main__":
    print(red("I'm red!"))
```

```python tab={"label":"src/python/project/BUILD"}
# Pants will infer a dependency both on the `ansicolors` requirement
# and our type stub.
python_sources(name="lib")
```

### Third-party type stubs

You can install third-party type stubs (for example, `types-requests`) like [normal Python requirements](../overview/third-party-dependencies.mdx). Pants will infer a dependency on both the type stub and the actual dependency, for example, both `types-requests` and `requests`, which you can confirm by running `pants dependencies path/to/f.py`.

Third-party type stubs must be installed in the same resolve as the third-party code they provide types for.

### Add a third-party plugin

Add any third-party MyPy plugins to a [custom lockfile](../overview/lockfiles.mdx#lockfiles-for-tools):

```toml tab={"label":"pants.toml"}
[python.resolves]
mypy = "3rdparty/python/mypy-lock.txt"

[mypy]
install_from_resolve = "mypy"
```

```text tab={"label":"3rdparty/python/mypy-requirements.txt"}
mypy==1.3.0
pydantic==1.6.1
```

```python tab={"label":"3rdparty/python/BUILD"}
python_requirements(
    name="mypy",
    source="mypy-requirements.txt",
    resolve="mypy",
)
```

Then update your `mypy.ini` to load the plugin:

```text title="mypy.ini"
[mypy]
plugins =
    pydantic.mypy
```

For some plugins, such as `django-stubs`, you may need to always load certain source files, such as a `settings.py` file. You can make sure that this source file is always used by hijacking the `source_plugins` option, which allows you to specify targets whose `sources` should always be used when running MyPy. See the section below for more information about source plugins.

For example, to fully use the `django-stubs` plugin, your setup might look like this:

```toml tab={"label":"pants.toml"}
[source]
root_patterns = ["src/python"]

[mypy]
install_from_resolve = "mypy"
source_plugins = ["src/python/project:django_settings"]
```

```text tab={"label":"3rdparty/python/mypy-requirements.txt"}
mypy==1.3.0
django-stubs==1.5.0
```

```python tab={"label":"3rdparty/python/BUILD"}
python_requirements(
    name="mypy",
    source="mypy-requirements.txt",
    resolve="mypy",
)
```

```text tab={"label":"mypy.ini"}
[mypy]
plugins =
    mypy_django_plugin.main

[mypy.plugins.django-stubs]
django_settings_module = project.django_settings
```

```python tab={"label":"src/python/project/django_settings.py"}
from django.urls import URLPattern

DEBUG = True
DEFAULT_FROM_EMAIL = "webmaster@example.com"
SECRET_KEY = "not so secret"
MY_SETTING = URLPattern(pattern="foo", callback=lambda: None)
```

```python tab={"label":"src/python/project/BUILD"}
python_source(name="django_settings", source="django_settings.py")
```

:::caution Importing type stubs
Type stubs specified in the MyPy custom lockfile are not visible to the `python-infer` subsystem, and cannot be referenced as explicit `dependencies`. If you `import` from a stubs module in your code, and it does not have a corresponding implementation `python_requirement` target that provides the imported module, you may see a warning/error depending on the value you've configured for `[python-infer].unowned_dependency_behavior`. Goals other than `check` will also raise `ImportError`s if the `import` isn't conditional on the value of `typing.TYPE_CHECKING`:

```toml tab={"label":"pants.toml"}
[python-infer]
unowned_dependency_behavior = "warning"
[mypy]
install_from_resolve = "mypy"
```

```text tab={"label":"3rdparty/python/mypy-requirements.txt"}
mypy==1.3.0
mypy_boto3_ec2==1.26.136
```

```python tab={"label":"3rdparty/python/BUILD"}
python_requirements(
name="mypy",
source="mypy-requirements.txt",
resolve="mypy",
)
```

```python tab={"label":"src/example.py"}
from typing import TYPE_CHECKING

# Unsafe! Will fail outside of `check`
from mypy_boto3_ec2 import EC2Client

if TYPE_CHECKING:
    # Safe, but will be flagged as a warning
    from mypy_boto3_ec2 import EC2ServiceResource
```

For these reasons, it's recommended to load any type-stub libraries that require explicit imports as part of your normal [third-party dependencies](../overview/third-party-dependencies.mdx). Alternatively, you can set `# pants: no-infer-dep` on the lines of type-stub imports "guarded" by a check of `if TYPE_CHECKING`.
:::

:::note MyPy Protobuf support
Add `mypy_plugin = true` to the `[python-protobuf]` scope. See [Protobuf](../integrations/protobuf-and-grpc.mdx) for more information.
:::

### Add a first-party plugin

To add a [MyPy plugin](https://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/extending_mypy.html) you wrote, add a `python_source` or `python_sources` target with the plugin's Python file(s) included in the `sources` field.

Then, add `plugins = path.to.module` to your MyPy config file, using the name of the module without source roots. For example, if your Python file is called `pants-plugins/mypy_plugins/custom_plugin.py`, and you set `pants-plugins` as a source root, then set `plugins = mypy_plugins.custom_plugin`. Set the `config` option in the `[mypy]` scope in your `pants.toml` to point to your MyPy config file.

Finally, set the option `source_plugins` in the `[mypy]` scope to include this target's address, e.g. `source_plugins = ["pants-plugins/mypy_plugins:plugin"]`. This will ensure that your plugin's sources are always included in the subprocess.

For example:

```toml tab={"label":"pants.toml"}
[mypy]
source_plugins = ["pants-plugins/mypy_plugins:plugin"]
```

```text tab={"label":"mypy.ini"}
plugins =
    mypy_plugins.change_return_type
```

```python tab={"label":"pants-plugins/mypy_plugins/BUILD"}
python_source(name="plugin", source="change_return_type.py")
```

```python tab={"label":"pants-plugins/mypy_plugins/change_return_type.py"}
"""A contrived plugin that changes the return type of any
function ending in `__overriden_by_plugin` to return None."""

from typing import Callable, Optional, Type

from mypy.plugin import FunctionContext, Plugin
from mypy.types import NoneType, Type as MyPyType

from plugins.subdir.dep import is_overridable_function

class ChangeReturnTypePlugin(Plugin):
    def get_function_hook(
        self, fullname: str
    ) -> Optional[Callable[[FunctionContext], MyPyType]]:
        return hook if name.endswith("__overridden_by_plugin") else None


def hook(ctx: FunctionContext) -> MyPyType:
    return NoneType()


def plugin(_version: str) -> Type[Plugin]:
    return ChangeReturnTypePlugin
```

Because this is a `python_source` or `python_sources` target, Pants will treat this code like your other Python files, such as running linters on it or allowing you to write a `python_distribution` target to distribute the plugin externally.

### Reports

MyPy can generate [various report files](https://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/command_line.html#report-generation).

For Pants to properly preserve the reports, instruct MyPy to write to the `reports/` folder by updating its config file or `--mypy-args`. For example, in your pants.toml:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[mypy]
args = ["--linecount-report=reports"]
```

Pants will copy all reports into the folder `dist/check/mypy`.

## Known limitations

### Performance is sometimes slower than normal

Pants 2.14 added support for leveraging MyPy's cache, making subsequent runs of MyPy extremely performant.
The support, however, requires features that were added to MyPy in version `0.700`, and requires that
`python_version` isn't set in MyPy's config or in `[mypy].args`.

If you're using a version of MyPy older than `0.700`, consider upgrading to unlock super-speedy subsequent runs of MyPy.
Additionally consider not providing `python_version` in your config or args.

## Tip: only run over changed files and their dependents

When changing type hints code, you not only need to run over the changed files, but also any code that depends on the changed files:

```bash
$ pants --changed-since=HEAD --changed-dependents=transitive check
```

See [Advanced target selection](../../using-pants/advanced-target-selection.mdx) for more information.
