docs/docs/python/goals/repl.mdx, before:

---
    title: repl
    sidebar_position: 5
---

Open a REPL for interactive development.

---

Pants will load a [REPL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/REPL) with all of your specified source code and any of its third-party dependencies, which allows you to import those values.

## IPython

In addition to the default Python shell, Pants supports the improved [IPython shell](https://ipython.org).

To use IPython, run `pants repl --shell=ipython`. To permanently use IPython, add this to your `pants.toml`:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[repl]
shell = "ipython"
```

You can change IPython's version with `[ipython].version`. If you change it, Pants's default lockfile for IPython will not work. Either set the `lockfile` option to a custom path or `"<none>"` to opt-out. See [Third-party dependencies](../overview/third-party-dependencies.mdx#tool-lockfiles).

```toml title="pants.toml"
[ipython]
version = "ipython>=8.0.0"
lockfile = "3rdparty/python/ipython_lock.txt"
```

If you set the `version` lower than IPython 7, then you must set `[ipython].ignore_cwd = false` to avoid Pants setting an option that did not exist in earlier IPython releases.

:::note Python 2 support
Pants uses IPython 7 by default, which does not work with Python 2. You can override `version` to use IPython 5. As mentioned above, you must set `ignore_cwd = false`.

```toml
[ipython]
version = "ipython<6"
lockfile = "3rdparty/python/ipython_lock.txt"
ignore_cwd = false
```

You can even use IPython 7 for Python 3 code, and IPython 5 for Python 2 code:

```toml
[ipython]
version = "ipython==7.16.1 ; python_version >= '3.6'"
extra_requirements.add = ["ipython<6 ; python_version == '2.7'"]
lockfile = "3rdparty/python/ipython_lock.txt"
ignore_cwd = false
```

:::

## Examples

```text title="Shell"
$ pants repl helloworld/greet/greeting.py

Python 3.7.6 (default, Feb 26 2020, 08:28:08)
[Clang 11.0.0 (clang-1100.0.33.8)] on darwin
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
(InteractiveConsole)
>>> from helloworld.greet.greeting import Greeter
>>> Greeter().greet("Pants")
'buenas tardes, Pants!'
>>> from translate import Translator
>>> Translator(to_lang="fr").translate("Good morning.")
'Salut.'
```

This will not load any of your code:

```text title="Shell"
❯ pants repl --shell=ipython
Python 3.9.12 (main, Mar 26 2022, 15:45:34)
Type 'copyright', 'credits' or 'license' for more information
IPython 7.34.0 -- An enhanced Interactive Python. Type '?' for help.

In [1]: 21 * 4
Out[1]: 84
```

`pants repl ::` will load all your code.

To pass arguments to the repl program, use `--` at the end of the command, like this:

```text title="Shell"
$ pants repl --shell=ipython -- -i helloworld/main.py
```

Check the documentation for the `--repl-args` option in `pants help repl` to see which shells support passing arguments.

:::note Tip: how to exit the REPL
Either type `exit()` and hit enter, or press `ctrl+d`.
:::

Commit message:

Rewrite IPython repl docs for new `install_from_resolve` approach

docs/docs/python/goals/repl.mdx, after:

---
    title: repl
    sidebar_position: 5
---

Open a REPL for interactive development.

---

Pants will load a [REPL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/REPL) with all of your specified source code and any of its third-party dependencies, which allows you to import those values.

## IPython

In addition to the default Python shell, Pants supports the improved [IPython shell](https://ipython.org).

To use IPython, run `pants repl --shell=ipython`. To permanently use IPython, add this to your `pants.toml`:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[repl]
shell = "ipython"
```

You can change IPython's version [like any other tool, using `install_from_resolve`](../overview/lockfiles#lockfiles-for-tools).

If you use a version lower than IPython 7, then you must set `[ipython].ignore_cwd = false` to avoid Pants setting an option that did not exist in earlier IPython releases.

:::note Python 2 support
Pants uses IPython 7 by default, which does not work with Python 2. You can use `install_from_resolve` to install IPython 5:

```toml tab={"label":"pants.toml"}
[python.resolves]
...
ipython = "3rdparty/python/ipython.lock"

[ipython]
install_from_resolve = "ipython"
ignore_cwd = false
```
```toml tab={"label": "BUILD"}
python_requirement(name="ipython", requirements=["ipython<6"], resolve="ipython")
```

:::

## Examples

```text title="Shell"
$ pants repl helloworld/greet/greeting.py

Python 3.7.6 (default, Feb 26 2020, 08:28:08)
[Clang 11.0.0 (clang-1100.0.33.8)] on darwin
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
(InteractiveConsole)
>>> from helloworld.greet.greeting import Greeter
>>> Greeter().greet("Pants")
'buenas tardes, Pants!'
>>> from translate import Translator
>>> Translator(to_lang="fr").translate("Good morning.")
'Salut.'
```

This will not load any of your code:

```text title="Shell"
❯ pants repl --shell=ipython
Python 3.9.12 (main, Mar 26 2022, 15:45:34)
Type 'copyright', 'credits' or 'license' for more information
IPython 7.34.0 -- An enhanced Interactive Python. Type '?' for help.

In [1]: 21 * 4
Out[1]: 84
```

`pants repl ::` will load all your code.

To pass arguments to the repl program, use `--` at the end of the command, like this:

```text title="Shell"
$ pants repl --shell=ipython -- -i helloworld/main.py
```

Check the documentation for the `--repl-args` option in `pants help repl` to see which shells support passing arguments.

:::note Tip: how to exit the REPL
Either type `exit()` and hit enter, or press `ctrl+d`.
:::
