docs/docs/python/integrations/thrift.mdx, before:

---
    title: Thrift
    sidebar_position: 1
---

How to generate Python from Thrift.

---

When your Python code imports Thrift generated files, Pants will detect the imports and run the Apache Thrift compiler to generate those files.

:::note Example repository
See [the codegen example repository](https://github.com/pantsbuild/example-codegen) for an example of using Thrift to generate Python.
:::

:::tip Benefit of Pants: generated files are always up-to-date
With Pants, there's no need to manually regenerate your code or check it into version control. Pants will ensure you are always using up-to-date files in your builds.

Thanks to fine-grained caching, Pants will regenerate the minimum amount of code required when you do make changes.
:::

## Step 1: Activate the Thrift Python backend

Add this to your `pants.toml`:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[GLOBAL]
backend_packages.add = [
  "pants.backend.codegen.thrift.apache.python",
  "pants.backend.python",
]
```

You will also need to make sure that `thrift` is discoverable on your PATH, as Pants does not [install Thrift](https://thrift.apache.org/docs/install/) for you. Alternatively, you can tell Pants where to discover Thrift:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[apache-thrift]
# Defaults to the special string "<PATH>", which expands to your $PATH.
thrift_search_paths = ["/usr/bin"]
```

This backend adds the new [`thrift_source`](../../../reference/targets/thrift_source.mdx) target, which you can confirm by running `pants help thrift_source`.

To reduce boilerplate, you can also use the [`thrift_sources`](../../../reference/targets/thrift_sources.mdx) target, which generates one `thrift_source` target per file in the `sources` field.

```python title="BUILD"
thrift_sources(name="thrift", sources=["user.thrift", "admin.thrift"])

# Spiritually equivalent to:
thrift_source(name="user", source="user.thrift")
thrift_source(name="admin", source="admin.thrift")

# Thanks to the default `sources` value of '*.thrift', spiritually equivalent to:
thrift_sources(name="thrift")
```

## Step 2: Set up the `thrift` runtime library

Generated Python files require the [`thrift` dependency](https://pypi.org/project/thrift/) for their imports to work properly.

Add `thrift` to your project, e.g. your `requirements.txt` (see [Third-party dependencies](../overview/third-party-dependencies.mdx)).

```text title="requirements.txt"
thrift==0.15.0
```

Pants will then automatically add these dependencies to your `thrift_sources` targets created in the next step.

## Step 3: Generate `thrift_sources` target

Run [`pants tailor ::`](../../getting-started/initial-configuration.mdx#5-generate-build-files) for Pants to create a `thrift_sources` target wherever you have `.thrift` files:

```
$ pants tailor ::
Created src/thrift/BUILD:
  - Add thrift_sources target thrift
```

Pants will use [dependency inference](../../using-pants/key-concepts/targets-and-build-files.mdx) for any `import` statements in your `.thrift` files, which you can confirm by running `pants dependencies path/to/file.thrift`. You should also see the `python_requirement` target for the `thrift` library from the previous step.

## Step 4: Confirm Python imports are working

Now, you can import the generated Python modules in your Python code.

For each Thrift file, the compiler will generate at least three files `__init__.py`, `ttypes.py`, and `constants.py`. The location of those files—and corresponding imports—depends on whether you set `namespace py` in your `.thrift` file:

| `namespace py` | Behavior                                                              | Example                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| :------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| unset          | Files generated as top-level modules, without any prefix directories. | `models/user.thrift` <br/> <br/>Generated: <br/> <br/>- `__init__.py`<br/>- `user/__init__.py`<br/>- `user/constants.py`<br/>- `user/ttypes.py`Python import: <br/>`import user.ttypes`                                                                                                                                                     |
| set            | Files generated into the namespace.                                   | `models/user.thrift`, with `namespace py custom_namespace.user` <br/> <br/>Generated: <br/> <br/>- `__init__.py`<br/>- `custom_namespace/__init__.py`<br/>- `custom_namespace/user/__init__.py`<br/>- `custom_namespace/user/constants.py`<br/>- `custom_namespace/user/ttypes.py`Python import: <br/>`import custom_namespace.user.ttypes` |

As shown in the table, your Python imports depend on whether the Thrift file uses `namespace py`.

Imports behave the same regardless of whether you have [source roots](../../using-pants/key-concepts/source-roots.mdx), such as `src/thrift`. The import will still either be the top-level file like `user.ttypes` or the custom namespace.

Pants's dependency inference will detect Python imports of Thrift modules, which you can confirm by running `pants dependencies path/to/file.py`.

You can also [manually add](../../using-pants/key-concepts/targets-and-build-files.mdx) the dependency:

```python title="src/py/BUILD"
python_sources(dependencies=["models:models"])
```

:::note TIp: set `namespace py`
Pants can handle Thrift regardless of whether you set `namespace py`.

However, it's often a good idea to set the namespace because it can make your imports more predictable and declarative. It also reduces the risk of your Thrift file names conflicting with other Python modules used, such as those from third-party requirements.

For example, compare `import user.ttypes` to `import codegen.models.user.ttypes`.
:::

:::note Run `pants export-codegen ::` to inspect the files
`pants export-codegen ::` will run all relevant code generators and write the files to `dist/codegen` using the same paths used normally by Pants.

You do not need to run this goal for codegen to work when using Pants; `export-codegen` is only for external consumption outside of Pants.
:::

## Multiple resolves

If you're using [multiple resolves](../overview/third-party-dependencies.mdx) (i.e. multiple lockfiles), then you may need to set the `python_resolve` field. `thrift_source` targets only work with a single resolve, meaning, for example, that a `python_source` target that uses the resolve 'a' can only depend on Thrift targets that also uses this same resolve.

By default, `thrift_source` / `thrift_sources` targets use the resolve set by the option `[python].default_resolve`. To use a different resolve, set the field `python_resolve: str` to one of the values from the option `[python].resolves`.

You must also make sure that any resolves that use codegen include the `python_requirement` target for the `thrift` runtime library from Step 2. Pants will eagerly validate this for you.

If the same Thrift files should work with multiple resolves, you can use the
[`parametrize`](../../using-pants/key-concepts/targets-and-build-files.mdx#parametrizing-targets) mechanism.

For example:

```python title="BUILD"
python_requirement(
    name="thrift-requirement",
    # Here, we use the same version of Thrift in both resolves. You could instead create
    # a distinct target per resolve so that they have different versions.
    requirements=["thrift==0.15.0""],
    resolve=parametrize("resolve-a", "resolve-b"),
)

thrift_sources(
    name="thrift",
    python_resolve=parametrize("resolve-a", "resolve-b")
)
```

Commit message:

export generated python sources to exported venvs (#20975)
Issue: A user has developers who use VSCode and would like those
developers to have easy access to the generated Python sources for
`protobuf_sources` targets in VSCode. The user reported that their
developers found having to run `pants export` and also `pants
export-codegen` confusing and unwiedly. The user would prefer a simpler
DX involving just using `pants export`.

When exporting a mutable venv for a resolve, write generated Python
codegen products to the venv as well when
`--export-py-generated-sources` is enabled.

The codegen products are staged to a `__pants_codegen__` directory in
the exported digest, and then a helper Python script moves the codegen
products into the site-packages directory. A helper script was used
since it has access to the location of the site-packages directory
programmatically via the `site` module.

docs/docs/python/integrations/thrift.mdx, after:

---
    title: Thrift
    sidebar_position: 1
---

How to generate Python from Thrift.

---

When your Python code imports Thrift generated files, Pants will detect the imports and run the Apache Thrift compiler to generate those files.

:::note Example repository
See [the codegen example repository](https://github.com/pantsbuild/example-codegen) for an example of using Thrift to generate Python.
:::

:::tip Benefit of Pants: generated files are always up-to-date
With Pants, there's no need to manually regenerate your code or check it into version control. Pants will ensure you are always using up-to-date files in your builds.

Thanks to fine-grained caching, Pants will regenerate the minimum amount of code required when you do make changes.
:::

## Step 1: Activate the Thrift Python backend

Add this to your `pants.toml`:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[GLOBAL]
backend_packages.add = [
  "pants.backend.codegen.thrift.apache.python",
  "pants.backend.python",
]
```

You will also need to make sure that `thrift` is discoverable on your PATH, as Pants does not [install Thrift](https://thrift.apache.org/docs/install/) for you. Alternatively, you can tell Pants where to discover Thrift:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[apache-thrift]
# Defaults to the special string "<PATH>", which expands to your $PATH.
thrift_search_paths = ["/usr/bin"]
```

This backend adds the new [`thrift_source`](../../../reference/targets/thrift_source.mdx) target, which you can confirm by running `pants help thrift_source`.

To reduce boilerplate, you can also use the [`thrift_sources`](../../../reference/targets/thrift_sources.mdx) target, which generates one `thrift_source` target per file in the `sources` field.

```python title="BUILD"
thrift_sources(name="thrift", sources=["user.thrift", "admin.thrift"])

# Spiritually equivalent to:
thrift_source(name="user", source="user.thrift")
thrift_source(name="admin", source="admin.thrift")

# Thanks to the default `sources` value of '*.thrift', spiritually equivalent to:
thrift_sources(name="thrift")
```

## Step 2: Set up the `thrift` runtime library

Generated Python files require the [`thrift` dependency](https://pypi.org/project/thrift/) for their imports to work properly.

Add `thrift` to your project, e.g. your `requirements.txt` (see [Third-party dependencies](../overview/third-party-dependencies.mdx)).

```text title="requirements.txt"
thrift==0.15.0
```

Pants will then automatically add these dependencies to your `thrift_sources` targets created in the next step.

## Step 3: Generate `thrift_sources` target

Run [`pants tailor ::`](../../getting-started/initial-configuration.mdx#5-generate-build-files) for Pants to create a `thrift_sources` target wherever you have `.thrift` files:

```
$ pants tailor ::
Created src/thrift/BUILD:
  - Add thrift_sources target thrift
```

Pants will use [dependency inference](../../using-pants/key-concepts/targets-and-build-files.mdx) for any `import` statements in your `.thrift` files, which you can confirm by running `pants dependencies path/to/file.thrift`. You should also see the `python_requirement` target for the `thrift` library from the previous step.

## Step 4: Confirm Python imports are working

Now, you can import the generated Python modules in your Python code.

For each Thrift file, the compiler will generate at least three files `__init__.py`, `ttypes.py`, and `constants.py`. The location of those files—and corresponding imports—depends on whether you set `namespace py` in your `.thrift` file:

| `namespace py` | Behavior                                                              | Example                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| :------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| unset          | Files generated as top-level modules, without any prefix directories. | `models/user.thrift` <br/> <br/>Generated: <br/> <br/>- `__init__.py`<br/>- `user/__init__.py`<br/>- `user/constants.py`<br/>- `user/ttypes.py`Python import: <br/>`import user.ttypes`                                                                                                                                                     |
| set            | Files generated into the namespace.                                   | `models/user.thrift`, with `namespace py custom_namespace.user` <br/> <br/>Generated: <br/> <br/>- `__init__.py`<br/>- `custom_namespace/__init__.py`<br/>- `custom_namespace/user/__init__.py`<br/>- `custom_namespace/user/constants.py`<br/>- `custom_namespace/user/ttypes.py`Python import: <br/>`import custom_namespace.user.ttypes` |

As shown in the table, your Python imports depend on whether the Thrift file uses `namespace py`.

Imports behave the same regardless of whether you have [source roots](../../using-pants/key-concepts/source-roots.mdx), such as `src/thrift`. The import will still either be the top-level file like `user.ttypes` or the custom namespace.

Pants's dependency inference will detect Python imports of Thrift modules, which you can confirm by running `pants dependencies path/to/file.py`.

You can also [manually add](../../using-pants/key-concepts/targets-and-build-files.mdx) the dependency:

```python title="src/py/BUILD"
python_sources(dependencies=["models:models"])
```

:::note TIp: set `namespace py`
Pants can handle Thrift regardless of whether you set `namespace py`.

However, it's often a good idea to set the namespace because it can make your imports more predictable and declarative. It also reduces the risk of your Thrift file names conflicting with other Python modules used, such as those from third-party requirements.

For example, compare `import user.ttypes` to `import codegen.models.user.ttypes`.
:::

:::note Run `pants export-codegen ::` to inspect the files
`pants export-codegen ::` will run all relevant code generators and write the files to `dist/codegen` using the same paths used normally by Pants.

You do not need to run this goal for codegen to work when using Pants; `export-codegen` is only for external consumption outside of Pants.

Note: You can also export the generated sources using the [`--export-py-generated-sources` option](reference/goals/export#py_generated_sources) to the [`pants export` goal](reference/goals/export). This is useful when you want to provide an IDE with third-party dependencies and generated sources in a single place.
:::

## Multiple resolves

If you're using [multiple resolves](../overview/third-party-dependencies.mdx) (i.e. multiple lockfiles), then you may need to set the `python_resolve` field. `thrift_source` targets only work with a single resolve, meaning, for example, that a `python_source` target that uses the resolve 'a' can only depend on Thrift targets that also uses this same resolve.

By default, `thrift_source` / `thrift_sources` targets use the resolve set by the option `[python].default_resolve`. To use a different resolve, set the field `python_resolve: str` to one of the values from the option `[python].resolves`.

You must also make sure that any resolves that use codegen include the `python_requirement` target for the `thrift` runtime library from Step 2. Pants will eagerly validate this for you.

If the same Thrift files should work with multiple resolves, you can use the
[`parametrize`](../../using-pants/key-concepts/targets-and-build-files.mdx#parametrizing-targets) mechanism.

For example:

```python title="BUILD"
python_requirement(
    name="thrift-requirement",
    # Here, we use the same version of Thrift in both resolves. You could instead create
    # a distinct target per resolve so that they have different versions.
    requirements=["thrift==0.15.0""],
    resolve=parametrize("resolve-a", "resolve-b"),
)

thrift_sources(
    name="thrift",
    python_resolve=parametrize("resolve-a", "resolve-b")
)
```
