docs/docs/using-pants/key-concepts/options.mdx, before:

---
    title: Options
    sidebar_position: 2
---

A deep dive into how options may be configured.

---

## Option scopes

Options are partitioned into named _scopes_.

Some system-wide options belong in the _global scope_. For example, the `--level` option, which controls the logging level, is in the global scope.

Other options belong to a _subsystem scope_. A _subsystem_ is simply a collection of related options, in a scope. For example, the `pytest` subsystem contains options related to [Python's test framework pytest](../../../reference/subsystems/pytest.mdx).

## Setting options

Every option can be set in the following ways, in order of precedence:

1. Via a command line flag.
2. In an environment variable.
3. In a config file (`pants.toml`).

If an option isn't set in one of these ways, it will take on a default value.

You can inspect both the current value and the default value by using `pants help $scope` or `pants help-advanced $scope`, e.g. `pants help global`.

### Command-line flags

Global options are set using an unqualified flag:

```bash
pants --level=debug ...
```

Subsystem options are set by providing the flag, with the name prefixed with the lower-case scope name and a dash. So for the option `--root-patterns` in the scope `source`:

```bash
pants --source-root-patterns="['^ext']"
```

### Environment variables

Global options are set using the environment variable `PANTS_{OPTION_NAME}`:

```bash
PANTS_LEVEL=debug pants ...
```

Subsystem options are set using the environment variable  
`PANTS_{SCOPE}_{OPTION_NAME}`:

```bash
PANTS_SOURCE_ROOT_PATTERNS="['^ext']" pants ...
```

Note that the scope and option name are upper-cased, and any dashes in the option flag name are converted to underscores: `--multiword-name` becomes `MULTIWORD_NAME`.

### Config file entries

Global options are set in the `GLOBAL` section of the config file:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[GLOBAL]
level = "debug"
```

Subsystem options are set in the section named for their scope:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[source]
root_patterns = ["/src/python"]
```

Note that any dashes in the option flag name are converted to underscores: `--multiword-name` becomes `multiword_name`.

#### Config file interpolation

A string value in a config file can contain placeholders of the form `%(key)s`, which will be replaced with a corresponding value. The `key` can be one of:

- A string-valued option in the DEFAULT section of the same config file.
- A string-valued option in the same section of the config file as the value containing the placeholder.
- Any environment variable, prefixed with `env.`: `%(env.ENV_VAR)s`.
- The following special values:
  - `%(buildroot)s`: absolute path to the root of your repository.
  - `%(homedir)s`: equivalent to `$HOME` or `~`.
  - `%(user)s`: the current user's username, obtained from the system password file.
  - `%(pants_workdir)s`: the absolute path of the global option `--pants-workdir`, which defaults
    to `{buildroot}/.pants.d/`.
  - `%(pants_distdir)s`: the absolute path of the global option `--pants-distdir`, which defaults
    to `{buildroot}/dist/`.

An interpolated value may itself contain placeholders, that will be recursively interpolated.

For example:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[DEFAULT]
domain = "my.domain"

[python-repos]
repo_host = "repo.%(domain)s"
indexes.add = ["http://%(env.PY_REPO)s@%(repo_host)s/index
```

## Option types

Every option has a type, and any values you set must be of that type.

The option types are:

- string
- integer
- bool
- list
- dict

A list-valued option may also declare a specific type for its members (e.g., a list of strings, or a list of integers).

### String and integer values

Standalone string and integer values are written without quotes. Any quotes will be considered part of the value, after shell escaping.

#### Command-line flags:

```bash
pants --scope-intopt=42
pants --scope-stropt=qux
```

#### Environment variables:

```bash
PANTS_SCOPE_INTOPT=42
PANTS_SCOPE_STROPT=qux
```

#### Config file entries:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[scope]
intopt = 42
stropt = "qux"
```

### Boolean values

Boolean values can be specified using the special strings `true` and `false`. When specifying them via command-line flags you can also use the `--boolopt/--no-boolopt` syntax.

#### Command-line flags:

```bash
pants --scope-boolopt=true
pants --scope-boolopt
pants --no-scope-boolopt
```

#### Environment variables:

```bash
PANTS_SCOPE_BOOLOPT=true
```

#### Config file entries:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[scope]
boolopt = true
```

### List values

List values are parsed as Python list literals, so you must quote string values, and you may need to apply shell-level quoting and/or escaping, as required.

#### Command-line flags:

```bash
pants --scope-listopt="['foo','bar']"
```

You can also leave off the `[]` to _append_ elements. So we can rewrite the above to:

```bash
pants --scope-listopt=foo --scope-listopt=bar
```

Appending will add to any values from lower-precedence sources, such as config files (`pants.toml`) and possibly Pants's `default`. Otherwise, using `[]` will override any lower-precedence sources.

#### Environment variables:

```bash
PANTS_SCOPE_LISTOPT="['foo','bar']"
```

Like with command-line flags, you can leave off the `[]` to _append_ elements:

```bash
PANTS_SCOPE_LISTOPT=foo
```

#### Config file entries:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[scope]
listopt = [
  'foo',
  'bar'
]
```

#### Add/remove semantics

List values have some extra semantics:

- A value can be preceded by `+`, which will _append_ the elements to the value obtained from lower-precedence sources.
- A value can be preceded by `-`, which will _remove_ the elements from the value obtained from lower-precedence sources.
- Multiple `+` and `-` values can be provided, separated by commas.
- Otherwise, the value _replaces_ the one obtained from lower-precedence sources.

For example, if the value of `--listopt` in `scope` is set to `[1, 2]` in a config file, then

```bash
pants --scope-listopt="+[3,4]"
```

will set the value to `[1, 2, 3, 4]`.

```bash
pants --scope-listopt="-[1],+[3,4]"
```

will set the value to `[2, 3, 4]`, and

```bash
pants --scope-listopt="[3,4]"
```

will set the value to `[3, 4]`.

:::note Add/remove syntax in .toml files
The +/- syntax works in .toml files, but the entire value must be quoted:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[scope]
listopt = "+[1,2],-[3,4]"
```

This means that TOML treats the value as a string, instead of a TOML list.

Alternatively, you can use this syntactic sugar, which allows the values to be regular TOML lists:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[scope]
listopt.add = [1, 2]
listopt.remove = [3, 4]
```

But note that this only works in Pants's `.toml` config files, not in environment variables or command-line flags.
:::

### Dict values

Dict values are parsed as Python dict literals on the command-line and environment variables, so you must quote string keys and values, and you may need to apply shell-level quoting and/or escaping, as required.

#### Command-line flags:

```bash
pants --scope-dictopt="{'foo':1,'bar':2}"
```

#### Environment variables:

```bash
PANTS_SCOPE_DICTOPT="{'foo':1,'bar':2}"
```

#### Config file entries:

You can use TOML's [nested table features](https://toml.io/en/v1.0.0#inline-table). These are equivalent:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[scope]
dictopt = { foo = 1, bar = 2}
```

```toml title="pants.toml"
[scope.dictopt]
foo = 1
bar = 2
```

You can also use a string literal. Note the quotes:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[scope]
dictopt = """{
 'foo': 1,
 'bar': 2,
}"""
```

#### Add/replace semantics

- A value can be preceded by `+`, which will _update_ the value obtained from lower-precedence sources with the entries.
- Otherwise, the value _replaces_ the one obtained from lower-precedence sources.

For example, if the value of `--dictopt` in `scope` is set to `{'foo', 1, 'bar': 2}` in a config file, then

```bash
pants --scope-dictopt="+{'foo':42,'baz':3}"
```

will set the value to `{'foo': 42, 'bar': 2, 'baz': 3}`, and

```bash
pants --scope-dictopt="{'foo':42,'baz':3}"
```

will set the value to `{'foo': 42, 'baz': 3}`.

## Reading individual option values from files

If an option value is too large or elaborate to use directly, or if you don't want to hard-code
values directly in `pants.toml`, you can set the value of any option to the string
`@relative/path/from/repo/root/to/file` (note the leading `@`), and the value will be read
from that file.

If the file name ends with `.json` or `.yaml` then the file will be parsed as the relevant
format, which is useful for list- and dict-valued options.

Otherwise, the file is parsed as a literal as described above for each option type.

Note that you can use this feature on the command-line, in an env var, or in a config file:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[scope]
opt = "@path/to/file.json"
```

```bash
PANTS_SCOPE_OPTION=@path/to/file.json
```

```bash
pants --scope-option="@path/to/file.json"
```

:::caution Gotcha: If you modify the value file, you must manually restart pantsd
Until we resolve [this issue](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/10360), changing
the value in a file used with the `@` syntax as described above will not invalidate the build.
For now, if such a file changes you will have to restart the Pants daemon manually. You can
do so by `kill`ing it (after using `ps -ef | grep pantsd` to find its pid), or by running
Pants once with `--no-pantsd`.
:::

## `.pants.rc` file

You can set up personal Pants config files, using the same TOML syntax as `pants.toml`. By default, Pants looks for the paths `/etc/pantsrc`, `~/.pants.rc`, and `.pants.rc` in the repository root.

For example:

```toml title=".pants.rc"
[python]
# Even though our repository uses 3.8+, because I have an M1,
# I must use Python 3.9+.
interpreter_constraints = ["==3.9.*"]
```

If you want to ban this feature, set `[GLOBAL].pantsrc = false` in `pants.toml`.

Commit message:

docs: mention .pants.bootstrap file (#20538)
The `.pants.bootstrap` file is not mentioned anywhere, but it can be
helpful when declaring environment variables that are going to be
accessible both in `pants.toml` to interpolate and any subprocess Pants
may start (such as when doing `pants run script.py` and there's
`os.getenv("ENVVAR")`).

docs/docs/using-pants/key-concepts/options.mdx, after:

---
    title: Options
    sidebar_position: 2
---

A deep dive into how options may be configured.

---

## Option scopes

Options are partitioned into named _scopes_.

Some system-wide options belong in the _global scope_. For example, the `--level` option, which controls the logging level, is in the global scope.

Other options belong to a _subsystem scope_. A _subsystem_ is simply a collection of related options, in a scope. For example, the `pytest` subsystem contains options related to [Python's test framework pytest](../../../reference/subsystems/pytest.mdx).

## Setting options

Every option can be set in the following ways, in order of precedence:

1. Via a command line flag.
2. In an environment variable.
3. In a config file (`pants.toml`).

If an option isn't set in one of these ways, it will take on a default value.

You can inspect both the current value and the default value by using `pants help $scope` or `pants help-advanced $scope`, e.g. `pants help global`.

### Command-line flags

Global options are set using an unqualified flag:

```bash
pants --level=debug ...
```

Subsystem options are set by providing the flag, with the name prefixed with the lower-case scope name and a dash. So for the option `--root-patterns` in the scope `source`:

```bash
pants --source-root-patterns="['^ext']"
```

### Environment variables

Global options are set using the environment variable `PANTS_{OPTION_NAME}`:

```bash
PANTS_LEVEL=debug pants ...
```

Subsystem options are set using the environment variable  
`PANTS_{SCOPE}_{OPTION_NAME}`:

```bash
PANTS_SOURCE_ROOT_PATTERNS="['^ext']" pants ...
```

Note that the scope and option name are upper-cased, and any dashes in the option flag name are converted to underscores: `--multiword-name` becomes `MULTIWORD_NAME`.

### Config file entries

Global options are set in the `GLOBAL` section of the config file:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[GLOBAL]
level = "debug"
```

Subsystem options are set in the section named for their scope:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[source]
root_patterns = ["/src/python"]
```

Note that any dashes in the option flag name are converted to underscores: `--multiword-name` becomes `multiword_name`.

#### Config file interpolation

A string value in a config file can contain placeholders of the form `%(key)s`, which will be replaced with a corresponding value. The `key` can be one of:

- A string-valued option in the DEFAULT section of the same config file.
- A string-valued option in the same section of the config file as the value containing the placeholder.
- Any environment variable, prefixed with `env.`: `%(env.ENV_VAR)s`.
- The following special values:
  - `%(buildroot)s`: absolute path to the root of your repository.
  - `%(homedir)s`: equivalent to `$HOME` or `~`.
  - `%(user)s`: the current user's username, obtained from the system password file.
  - `%(pants_workdir)s`: the absolute path of the global option `--pants-workdir`, which defaults
    to `{buildroot}/.pants.d/`.
  - `%(pants_distdir)s`: the absolute path of the global option `--pants-distdir`, which defaults
    to `{buildroot}/dist/`.

An interpolated value may itself contain placeholders, that will be recursively interpolated.

For example:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[DEFAULT]
domain = "my.domain"

[python-repos]
repo_host = "repo.%(domain)s"
indexes.add = ["https://%(env.PY_REPO)s@%(repo_host)s/index"]
```

Learn more about exporting environment variables in the
[`.pants.bootstrap`](../using-pants/key-concepts/options.mdx#pantsbootstrap-file)) Bash script that is sourced
before Pants runs.

## Option types

Every option has a type, and any values you set must be of that type.

The option types are:

- string
- integer
- bool
- list
- dict

A list-valued option may also declare a specific type for its members (e.g., a list of strings, or a list of integers).

### String and integer values

Standalone string and integer values are written without quotes. Any quotes will be considered part of the value, after shell escaping.

#### Command-line flags:

```bash
pants --scope-intopt=42
pants --scope-stropt=qux
```

#### Environment variables:

```bash
PANTS_SCOPE_INTOPT=42
PANTS_SCOPE_STROPT=qux
```

#### Config file entries:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[scope]
intopt = 42
stropt = "qux"
```

### Boolean values

Boolean values can be specified using the special strings `true` and `false`. When specifying them via command-line flags you can also use the `--boolopt/--no-boolopt` syntax.

#### Command-line flags:

```bash
pants --scope-boolopt=true
pants --scope-boolopt
pants --no-scope-boolopt
```

#### Environment variables:

```bash
PANTS_SCOPE_BOOLOPT=true
```

#### Config file entries:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[scope]
boolopt = true
```

### List values

List values are parsed as Python list literals, so you must quote string values, and you may need to apply shell-level quoting and/or escaping, as required.

#### Command-line flags:

```bash
pants --scope-listopt="['foo','bar']"
```

You can also leave off the `[]` to _append_ elements. So we can rewrite the above to:

```bash
pants --scope-listopt=foo --scope-listopt=bar
```

Appending will add to any values from lower-precedence sources, such as config files (`pants.toml`) and possibly Pants's `default`. Otherwise, using `[]` will override any lower-precedence sources.

#### Environment variables:

```bash
PANTS_SCOPE_LISTOPT="['foo','bar']"
```

Like with command-line flags, you can leave off the `[]` to _append_ elements:

```bash
PANTS_SCOPE_LISTOPT=foo
```

#### Config file entries:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[scope]
listopt = [
  'foo',
  'bar'
]
```

#### Add/remove semantics

List values have some extra semantics:

- A value can be preceded by `+`, which will _append_ the elements to the value obtained from lower-precedence sources.
- A value can be preceded by `-`, which will _remove_ the elements from the value obtained from lower-precedence sources.
- Multiple `+` and `-` values can be provided, separated by commas.
- Otherwise, the value _replaces_ the one obtained from lower-precedence sources.

For example, if the value of `--listopt` in `scope` is set to `[1, 2]` in a config file, then

```bash
pants --scope-listopt="+[3,4]"
```

will set the value to `[1, 2, 3, 4]`.

```bash
pants --scope-listopt="-[1],+[3,4]"
```

will set the value to `[2, 3, 4]`, and

```bash
pants --scope-listopt="[3,4]"
```

will set the value to `[3, 4]`.

:::note Add/remove syntax in .toml files
The +/- syntax works in .toml files, but the entire value must be quoted:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[scope]
listopt = "+[1,2],-[3,4]"
```

This means that TOML treats the value as a string, instead of a TOML list.

Alternatively, you can use this syntactic sugar, which allows the values to be regular TOML lists:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[scope]
listopt.add = [1, 2]
listopt.remove = [3, 4]
```

But note that this only works in Pants's `.toml` config files, not in environment variables or command-line flags.
:::

### Dict values

Dict values are parsed as Python dict literals on the command-line and environment variables, so you must quote string keys and values, and you may need to apply shell-level quoting and/or escaping, as required.

#### Command-line flags:

```bash
pants --scope-dictopt="{'foo':1,'bar':2}"
```

#### Environment variables:

```bash
PANTS_SCOPE_DICTOPT="{'foo':1,'bar':2}"
```

#### Config file entries:

You can use TOML's [nested table features](https://toml.io/en/v1.0.0#inline-table). These are equivalent:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[scope]
dictopt = { foo = 1, bar = 2}
```

```toml title="pants.toml"
[scope.dictopt]
foo = 1
bar = 2
```

You can also use a string literal. Note the quotes:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[scope]
dictopt = """{
 'foo': 1,
 'bar': 2,
}"""
```

#### Add/replace semantics

- A value can be preceded by `+`, which will _update_ the value obtained from lower-precedence sources with the entries.
- Otherwise, the value _replaces_ the one obtained from lower-precedence sources.

For example, if the value of `--dictopt` in `scope` is set to `{'foo', 1, 'bar': 2}` in a config file, then

```bash
pants --scope-dictopt="+{'foo':42,'baz':3}"
```

will set the value to `{'foo': 42, 'bar': 2, 'baz': 3}`, and

```bash
pants --scope-dictopt="{'foo':42,'baz':3}"
```

will set the value to `{'foo': 42, 'baz': 3}`.

## Reading individual option values from files

If an option value is too large or elaborate to use directly, or if you don't want to hard-code
values directly in `pants.toml`, you can set the value of any option to the string
`@relative/path/from/repo/root/to/file` (note the leading `@`), and the value will be read
from that file.

If the file name ends with `.json` or `.yaml` then the file will be parsed as the relevant
format, which is useful for list- and dict-valued options.

Otherwise, the file is parsed as a literal as described above for each option type.

Note that you can use this feature on the command-line, in an env var, or in a config file:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[scope]
opt = "@path/to/file.json"
```

```bash
PANTS_SCOPE_OPTION=@path/to/file.json
```

```bash
pants --scope-option="@path/to/file.json"
```

:::caution Gotcha: If you modify the value file, you must manually restart pantsd
Until we resolve [this issue](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/10360), changing
the value in a file used with the `@` syntax as described above will not invalidate the build.
For now, if such a file changes you will have to restart the Pants daemon manually. You can
do so by `kill`ing it (after using `ps -ef | grep pantsd` to find its pid), or by running
Pants once with `--no-pantsd`.
:::

## `.pants.rc` file

You can set up personal Pants config files, using the same TOML syntax as `pants.toml`. By default, Pants looks for the paths `/etc/pantsrc`, `~/.pants.rc`, and `.pants.rc` in the repository root.

For example:

```toml title=".pants.rc"
[python]
# Even though our repository uses 3.8+, because I have an M1,
# I must use Python 3.9+.
interpreter_constraints = ["==3.9.*"]
```

If you want to ban this feature, set `[GLOBAL].pantsrc = false` in `pants.toml`.

## `.pants.bootstrap` file

If you need to set default values for environment variables without requiring all users to define them in the local
environment, you can export them in the `.pants.bootstrap` Bash script. This file needs to be placed in the root of your
workspace, and it is going to be sourced before invoking any Pants goal.

You can also add to this file any Bash code you want to execute before Pants runs, and any environment variables
declared in this file are going to be available to any process that Pants launcher binary may start.

For example:

```bash title=".pants.bootstrap"
# these variables are defined in our CI agents,
# but this is set to support local development
export DOCKER_DEFAULT_REPO="https://hub.docker.com/"
export GIT_COMMIT="$(git rev-parse HEAD)"
```

If you want to learn more about how
[Pants launcher binary](../../getting-started/installing-pants#the-pants-binarys-implementation) works, see
the [scie-pants](https://github.com/pantsbuild/scie-pants) project.
