docs/docs/using-pants/project-introspection.mdx, before:

---
    title: Project introspection
    sidebar_position: 4
---

Finding insights in your project.

---

Pants provides several goals to provide insights into your project's structure.

<iframe
  class="embedly-embed"
  src="//cdn.embedly.com/widgets/media.html?src=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.youtube.com%2Fembed%2FIpEv5cWfyko%3Ffeature%3Doembed&display_name=YouTube&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.youtube.com%2Fwatch%3Fv%3DIpEv5cWfyko&image=https%3A%2F%2Fi.ytimg.com%2Fvi%2FIpEv5cWfyko%2Fhqdefault.jpg&key=f2aa6fc3595946d0afc3d76cbbd25dc3&type=text%2Fhtml&schema=youtube"
  width="640"
  height="480"
  scrolling="no"
  title="YouTube embed"
  frameborder="0"
  allow="autoplay; fullscreen"
  allowfullscreen="true"
></iframe>

:::note Tip: Use `xargs` to pipe these goals into other Pants commands
For example:

```bash
$ pants dependents project/util.py | xargs pants test
```

See [Advanced target selection](./advanced-target-selection.mdx) for more info and other techniques to use the results.
:::

## `list` - find your project's targets

`list` will find all targets that match the arguments.

For example, to show all targets in your project:

```bash
❯ pants list ::
//:ansicolors
//:setuptools
helloworld:lib
helloworld:pex_binary
helloworld/__init__.py:lib
helloworld/main.py:lib
...
```

You can specify a file, which will find the target(s) owning that file:

```bash
❯ pants list helloworld/greet/greeting_test.py
helloworld/greet/greeting_test.py:tests
```

`list` often works well when paired with the `--filter` options from
[Advanced Target Selection](./advanced-target-selection.mdx), e.g.
`pants --filter-target-type=python_test list ::` to find all your `python_test` targets.

## `dependencies` - find a target's dependencies

Use `dependencies` to list all targets used directly by a target.

```bash
❯ pants dependencies helloworld:pex_binary
helloworld/main.py:lib
```

You can specify a file, which will run on the target(s) owning that file:

```bash
❯ pants dependencies helloworld/main.py:lib
//:ansicolors
helloworld/greet/greeting.py:lib
helloworld/main.py:lib
```

To include transitive dependencies—meaning the dependencies of the direct dependencies—use `--transitive`:

```bash
❯ pants dependencies --transitive helloworld/main.py:lib
//:ansicolors
//:setuptools
//:types-setuptools
helloworld/greet/greeting.py:lib
helloworld/greet:translations
helloworld/main.py:lib
helloworld/translator/translator.py:lib
```

## `dependents` - find which targets depend on a target

The `dependents` goal finds all targets that directly depend on the target you specify.

```bash
❯ pants dependents //:ansicolors
helloworld/main.py:lib
```

You can specify a file, which will run on the target(s) owning that file:

```
❯ pants dependents helloworld/translator/translator.py
helloworld/greet/greeting.py:lib
helloworld/translator:lib
helloworld/translator/translator_test.py:tests
```

To include transitive dependents — meaning targets that don't directly depend on your target, but which depend on a target that does directly use your target — use `--transitive`:

```bash
❯ pants dependents --transitive helloworld/translator/translator.py
helloworld:lib
helloworld:pex_binary
helloworld/main.py:lib
helloworld/greet:lib
...
```

To include the original target itself, use `--closed`:

```bash
❯ pants dependents --closed //:ansicolors
//:ansicolors
helloworld/main.py:lib
```

## `filedeps` - find which files a target owns

`filedeps` outputs all of the files belonging to a target, based on its `sources` field.

```bash
❯ pants filedeps helloworld/greet:lib
helloworld/greet/BUILD
helloworld/greet/__init__.py
helloworld/greet/greeting.py
```

To output absolute paths, use the option `--absolute`:

```bash
$ pants filedeps --absolute helloworld/util:util
/Users/pantsbuild/example-python/helloworld/greet/BUILD
/Users/pantsbuild/example-python/helloworld/greet/__init__.py
/Users/pantsbuild/example-python/helloworld/greet/greeting.py
```

To include the files used by dependencies (including transitive dependencies), use `--transitive`:

```bash
$ pants filedeps --transitive helloworld/util:util
BUILD
helloworld/greet/BUILD
helloworld/greet/__init__.py
helloworld/greet/greeting.py
helloworld/greet/translations.json
...
```

## `peek` - programmatically inspect a target

`peek` outputs JSON for each target specified.

```bash
$ pants peek helloworld/util:tests
[
  {
    "address": "helloworld/util:tests",
    "target_type": "python_tests",
    "dependencies": null,
    "description": null,
    "interpreter_constraints": null,
    "skip_black": false,
    "skip_docformatter": false,
    "skip_flake8": true,
    "skip_isort": false,
    "skip_mypy": false,
    "sources": [
      "*.py",
      "*.pyi",
      "!test_*.py",
      "!*_test.py",
      "!tests.py",
      "!conftest.py",
      "!test_*.pyi",
      "!*_test.pyi",
      "!tests.pyi"
    ],
    "tags": null
  }
]
```

You can use `--exclude-defaults` for less verbose output:

```bash
$ pants peek --exclude-defaults helloworld/util:tests
[
  {
    "address": "helloworld/util:tests",
    "target_type": "python_tests",
    "skip_flake8": true,
  }
]
```

:::note Piping peek output into jq
`peek` can be particularly useful when paired with [JQ](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) to query the JSON. For example, you can combine `pants peek` with JQ to find all targets where you set the field `skip_flake8=True`:

```bash
$ pants peek :: | jq -r '.[] | select(.skip_flake8 == true) | .["address"]'
helloworld/greet:lib
helloworld/greet:tests
helloworld/util:lib
```

:::

:::note Piping other introspection commands into `pants peek`
Some introspection goals, such as `filter`, `dependencies` and `dependents` emit a flat list of target addresses. It's often useful to expand each of those into a full JSON structure with detailed properties of each target, by piping to `pants peek`:

```bash
pants dependents  helloworld/main.py:lib | xargs pants peek --exclude-defaults
[
  {
    "address": "helloworld:lib",
    "target_type": "python_sources",
    "dependencies": [
      "helloworld/__init__.py:lib",
      "helloworld/main.py:lib"
    ],
    "sources": [
      "helloworld/__init__.py",
      "helloworld/main.py"
    ]
  },
  {
    "address": "helloworld:pex_binary",
    "target_type": "pex_binary",
    "dependencies": [
      "helloworld/main.py:lib"
    ],
    "entry_point": {
      "module": "main.py",
      "function": null
    }
  }
]
```

:::

## `paths` - find dependency paths

`paths` emits a list of all dependency paths between two targets:

```bash
$ pants paths --from=helloworld/main.py --to=helloworld/translator/translator.py
[
  [
    "helloworld/main.py:lib",
    "helloworld/greet/greeting.py:lib",
    "helloworld/translator/translator.py:lib"
  ]
]
```

## `count-loc` - count lines of code

`count-loc` counts the lines of code of the specified files by running the [Succinct Code Counter](https://github.com/boyter/scc) tool.

```shell
❯ pants count-loc ::
───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Language                 Files     Lines   Blanks  Comments     Code Complexity
───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Python                    1690    618679    23906      7270   587503      18700
HTML                        61      6522      694        67     5761          0
JSON                        36     18755        6         0    18749          0
YAML                        30      2451        4        19     2428          0
JavaScript                   6       671       89         8      574         32
CSV                          1         2        0         0        2          0
JSONL                        1         4        0         0        4          0
Jinja                        1        11        0         0       11          2
Shell                        1        13        2         2        9          4
TOML                         1       146        5         0      141          0
───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Total                     1828    647254    24706      7366   615182      18738
───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Estimated Cost to Develop $22,911,268
Estimated Schedule Effort 50.432378 months
Estimated People Required 53.813884
───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
```

SCC has [dozens of options](https://github.com/boyter/scc#usage). You can pass through options by either setting `--scc-args` or using `--` at the end of your command, like this:

```bash
pants count-loc :: -- --no-cocomo
```

:::caution See unexpected results? Set `pants_ignore`.
By default, Pants will ignore all globs specified in your `.gitignore`, along with `dist/` and any hidden files.

To ignore additional files, add to the global option `pants_ignore` in your `pants.toml`, using the same [syntax](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore) as `.gitignore` files.

For example:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[GLOBAL]
pants_ignore.add = ["/ignore_this_dir/"]
```

:::

Commit message:

docs: mention that when piping xargs may end up invoking Pants goal more than once (#20521)
Documenting the implications of using `xargs` when producing structured
data out of Pants goals, see
https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/20462 for context.

---------

Co-authored-by: Andreas Stenius <git@astekk.se>

docs/docs/using-pants/project-introspection.mdx, after:

---
    title: Project introspection
    sidebar_position: 4
---

Finding insights in your project.

---

Pants provides several goals to provide insights into your project's structure.

<iframe
  class="embedly-embed"
  src="//cdn.embedly.com/widgets/media.html?src=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.youtube.com%2Fembed%2FIpEv5cWfyko%3Ffeature%3Doembed&display_name=YouTube&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.youtube.com%2Fwatch%3Fv%3DIpEv5cWfyko&image=https%3A%2F%2Fi.ytimg.com%2Fvi%2FIpEv5cWfyko%2Fhqdefault.jpg&key=f2aa6fc3595946d0afc3d76cbbd25dc3&type=text%2Fhtml&schema=youtube"
  width="640"
  height="480"
  scrolling="no"
  title="YouTube embed"
  frameborder="0"
  allow="autoplay; fullscreen"
  allowfullscreen="true"
></iframe>

:::note Tip: Use `xargs` to pipe these goals into other Pants commands
For example:

```bash
$ pants dependents project/util.py | xargs pants test
```

See [Advanced target selection](./advanced-target-selection.mdx) for more info and other techniques to use the results.
:::

## `list` - find your project's targets

`list` will find all targets that match the arguments.

For example, to show all targets in your project:

```bash
❯ pants list ::
//:ansicolors
//:setuptools
helloworld:lib
helloworld:pex_binary
helloworld/__init__.py:lib
helloworld/main.py:lib
...
```

You can specify a file, which will find the target(s) owning that file:

```bash
❯ pants list helloworld/greet/greeting_test.py
helloworld/greet/greeting_test.py:tests
```

`list` often works well when paired with the `--filter` options from
[Advanced Target Selection](./advanced-target-selection.mdx), e.g.
`pants --filter-target-type=python_test list ::` to find all your `python_test` targets.

## `dependencies` - find a target's dependencies

Use `dependencies` to list all targets used directly by a target.

```bash
❯ pants dependencies helloworld:pex_binary
helloworld/main.py:lib
```

You can specify a file, which will run on the target(s) owning that file:

```bash
❯ pants dependencies helloworld/main.py:lib
//:ansicolors
helloworld/greet/greeting.py:lib
helloworld/main.py:lib
```

To include transitive dependencies—meaning the dependencies of the direct dependencies—use `--transitive`:

```bash
❯ pants dependencies --transitive helloworld/main.py:lib
//:ansicolors
//:setuptools
//:types-setuptools
helloworld/greet/greeting.py:lib
helloworld/greet:translations
helloworld/main.py:lib
helloworld/translator/translator.py:lib
```

## `dependents` - find which targets depend on a target

The `dependents` goal finds all targets that directly depend on the target you specify.

```bash
❯ pants dependents //:ansicolors
helloworld/main.py:lib
```

You can specify a file, which will run on the target(s) owning that file:

```
❯ pants dependents helloworld/translator/translator.py
helloworld/greet/greeting.py:lib
helloworld/translator:lib
helloworld/translator/translator_test.py:tests
```

To include transitive dependents — meaning targets that don't directly depend on your target, but which depend on a target that does directly use your target — use `--transitive`:

```bash
❯ pants dependents --transitive helloworld/translator/translator.py
helloworld:lib
helloworld:pex_binary
helloworld/main.py:lib
helloworld/greet:lib
...
```

To include the original target itself, use `--closed`:

```bash
❯ pants dependents --closed //:ansicolors
//:ansicolors
helloworld/main.py:lib
```

## `filedeps` - find which files a target owns

`filedeps` outputs all of the files belonging to a target, based on its `sources` field.

```bash
❯ pants filedeps helloworld/greet:lib
helloworld/greet/BUILD
helloworld/greet/__init__.py
helloworld/greet/greeting.py
```

To output absolute paths, use the option `--absolute`:

```bash
$ pants filedeps --absolute helloworld/util:util
/Users/pantsbuild/example-python/helloworld/greet/BUILD
/Users/pantsbuild/example-python/helloworld/greet/__init__.py
/Users/pantsbuild/example-python/helloworld/greet/greeting.py
```

To include the files used by dependencies (including transitive dependencies), use `--transitive`:

```bash
$ pants filedeps --transitive helloworld/util:util
BUILD
helloworld/greet/BUILD
helloworld/greet/__init__.py
helloworld/greet/greeting.py
helloworld/greet/translations.json
...
```

## `peek` - programmatically inspect a target

`peek` outputs JSON for each target specified.

```bash
$ pants peek helloworld/util:tests
[
  {
    "address": "helloworld/util:tests",
    "target_type": "python_tests",
    "dependencies": null,
    "description": null,
    "interpreter_constraints": null,
    "skip_black": false,
    "skip_docformatter": false,
    "skip_flake8": true,
    "skip_isort": false,
    "skip_mypy": false,
    "sources": [
      "*.py",
      "*.pyi",
      "!test_*.py",
      "!*_test.py",
      "!tests.py",
      "!conftest.py",
      "!test_*.pyi",
      "!*_test.pyi",
      "!tests.pyi"
    ],
    "tags": null
  }
]
```

You can use `--exclude-defaults` for less verbose output:

```bash
$ pants peek --exclude-defaults helloworld/util:tests
[
  {
    "address": "helloworld/util:tests",
    "target_type": "python_tests",
    "skip_flake8": true,
  }
]
```

:::note Piping peek output into jq
`peek` can be particularly useful when paired with [JQ](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) to query the JSON. For example, you can combine `pants peek` with JQ to find all targets where you set the field `skip_flake8=True`:

```bash
$ pants peek :: | jq -r '.[] | select(.skip_flake8 == true) | .["address"]'
helloworld/greet:lib
helloworld/greet:tests
helloworld/util:lib
```

:::

:::note Piping other introspection commands into `pants peek`
Some introspection goals, such as `filter`, `dependencies` and `dependents` emit a flat list of target addresses. It's often useful to expand each of those into a full JSON structure with detailed properties of each target, by piping to `pants peek`:

```bash
pants dependents  helloworld/main.py:lib | xargs pants peek --exclude-defaults
[
  {
    "address": "helloworld:lib",
    "target_type": "python_sources",
    "dependencies": [
      "helloworld/__init__.py:lib",
      "helloworld/main.py:lib"
    ],
    "sources": [
      "helloworld/__init__.py",
      "helloworld/main.py"
    ]
  },
  {
    "address": "helloworld:pex_binary",
    "target_type": "pex_binary",
    "dependencies": [
      "helloworld/main.py:lib"
    ],
    "entry_point": {
      "module": "main.py",
      "function": null
    }
  }
]
```

Keep in mind, however, that the `peek` goal may be invoked by `xargs` as many times as necessary to use up the list
of input items. This may break the structured data output, so it may be safer to use the
[`--spec-files`](../../reference/global-options#spec_files) option.

:::

## `paths` - find dependency paths

`paths` emits a list of all dependency paths between two targets:

```bash
$ pants paths --from=helloworld/main.py --to=helloworld/translator/translator.py
[
  [
    "helloworld/main.py:lib",
    "helloworld/greet/greeting.py:lib",
    "helloworld/translator/translator.py:lib"
  ]
]
```

## `count-loc` - count lines of code

`count-loc` counts the lines of code of the specified files by running the [Succinct Code Counter](https://github.com/boyter/scc) tool.

```shell
❯ pants count-loc ::
───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Language                 Files     Lines   Blanks  Comments     Code Complexity
───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Python                    1690    618679    23906      7270   587503      18700
HTML                        61      6522      694        67     5761          0
JSON                        36     18755        6         0    18749          0
YAML                        30      2451        4        19     2428          0
JavaScript                   6       671       89         8      574         32
CSV                          1         2        0         0        2          0
JSONL                        1         4        0         0        4          0
Jinja                        1        11        0         0       11          2
Shell                        1        13        2         2        9          4
TOML                         1       146        5         0      141          0
───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Total                     1828    647254    24706      7366   615182      18738
───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Estimated Cost to Develop $22,911,268
Estimated Schedule Effort 50.432378 months
Estimated People Required 53.813884
───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
```

SCC has [dozens of options](https://github.com/boyter/scc#usage). You can pass through options by either setting `--scc-args` or using `--` at the end of your command, like this:

```bash
pants count-loc :: -- --no-cocomo
```

:::caution See unexpected results? Set `pants_ignore`.
By default, Pants will ignore all globs specified in your `.gitignore`, along with `dist/` and any hidden files.

To ignore additional files, add to the global option `pants_ignore` in your `pants.toml`, using the same [syntax](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore) as `.gitignore` files.

For example:

```toml title="pants.toml"
[GLOBAL]
pants_ignore.add = ["/ignore_this_dir/"]
```

:::
