docs/markdown/Python/python-integrations/awslambda-python.md, before:

---
title: "AWS Lambda"
slug: "awslambda-python"
excerpt: "Create a Lambda with Python code."
hidden: false
createdAt: "2020-05-05T16:51:03.851Z"
---
Pants can create a Lambda-compatible zip file from your Python code, allowing you to develop your Lambda functions and layers in your repository instead of using the online Cloud9 editor.

> 📘 FYI: how Pants does this
>
> Under-the-hood, Pants uses the [PEX](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pex) project, to select the appropriate third-party requirements and first-party sources and lay them out in a zip file, in the format recommended by AWS.

Step 1: Activate the Python AWS Lambda backend
----------------------------------------------

Add this to your `pants.toml`:

```toml pants.toml
[GLOBAL]
backend_packages.add = [
  "pants.backend.awslambda.python",
  "pants.backend.python",
]
```

This adds the new `python_aws_lambda_function` target, which you can confirm by running `pants help python_aws_lambda_function`

Step 2: Define a `python_aws_lambda_function` target
----------------------------------------------------

First, add your lambda function in a Python file like you would [normally do with AWS Lambda](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/python-handler.html). Specifically, create a function `def my_handler_name(event, context)` with the name you want.

Then, in your BUILD file, make sure that you have a `python_source` or `python_sources` target with the handler file included in the `sources` field. You can use [`pants tailor ::`](doc:initial-configuration#5-generate-build-files) to automate this.

Add a `python_aws_lambda_function` target and define the `runtime` and `handler` fields. The `runtime` should be one of the values from <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/lambda-python.html>. The `handler` has the form `handler_file.py:handler_func`, which Pants will convert into a well-formed entry point. Alternatively, you can set `handler` to the format `path.to.module:handler_func`.

For example:

```python project/BUILD
# The default `sources` field will include our handler file.
python_sources(name="lib")

python_aws_lambda_function(
    name="lambda",
    runtime="python3.8",
    # Pants will convert this to `project.lambda_example:example_handler`.
    handler="lambda_example.py:example_handler",
)
```
```python project/lambda_example.py
def example_handler(event, context):
    print("Hello AWS!")
```

Pants will use [dependency inference](doc:targets) based on the `handler` field, which you can confirm by running `pants dependencies path/to:lambda`. You can also manually add to the `dependencies` field.

You can optionally set the `output_path` field to change the generated zip file's path.

> 🚧 Use `resource` instead of `file`
>
> `file` / `files` targets will not be included in the built AWS Lambda artifacts because filesystem APIs like `open()` would not load them as expected. Instead, use the `resource` and `resources` target. See [Assets and archives](doc:assets) for further explanation.

Step 3: Run `package`
---------------------

Now run `pants package` on your `python_aws_lambda_function` target to create a zipped file.

For example:

```bash
$ pants package project/:lambda
Wrote dist/project/lambda.zip
  Handler: lambda_function.handler
```

> 🚧 Running from macOS and failing to build?
>
> AWS Lambda functions must run on Linux, so Pants tells PEX and Pip to build for Linux when resolving your third party dependencies. This means that you can only use pre-built [wheels](https://packaging.python.org/glossary/#term-wheel) (bdists). If your project requires any source distributions ([sdists](https://packaging.python.org/glossary/#term-source-distribution-or-sdist)) that must be built locally, PEX and pip will fail to run.
>
> If this happens, you must either change your dependencies to only use dependencies with pre-built [wheels](https://pythonwheels.com) or find a Linux environment to run `pants package`.

Step 4: Upload to AWS
---------------------

You can use any of the various AWS methods to upload your zip file, such as the AWS console or the AWS CLI via `aws lambda create-function` and `aws lambda update-function-code`.

You can specify the AWS lambda handler as `lambda_function.handler`. This is a re-export of the function referred to by the `handler` field of the target.

Docker Integration
------------------

To [deploy a Python lambda function with container images](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/python-image.html), you can use Pants's [Docker](doc:docker) support.

For example:

```dockerfile project/Dockerfile
FROM public.ecr.aws/lambda/python:3.8

RUN yum install unzip -y
COPY project/lambda.zip .
RUN unzip lambda.zip -d "${LAMBDA_TASK_ROOT}"
CMD ["lambda_function.handler"]
```
```python project/BUILD
python_sources()

python_aws_lambda_function(
    name="lambda",
    runtime="python3.8",
    handler="main.py:lambda_handler"
)

docker_image(
    name="my_image",
    dependencies = [":lambda"],
)
```

Then, use `pants package project:my_image`, for example. Pants will first build your AWS Lambda function, and then will build the Docker image and copy it into the AWS Lambda.

Building a Lambda Layer
-----------------------

[AWS Lambda layers](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/gettingstarted-concepts.html#gettingstarted-concepts-layer) allow including additional code in the execution environment of a Lambda function, without having to include that code in the function package. Using a layer can allow for including more code in a single function, sharing common dependencies across several functions, and may even give faster builds and deploys.

Pants uses the `python_aws_lambda_layer` target to build AWS Lambda layers. The contents of the layer must be specified in the `dependencies` field, and Pants will pull in all of the code that implies (transitively) as usual, including any exclusions via `!` and `!!`. The `include_sources` and `include_requirements` fields provide additional control over the contents of the layer.

For example, one use of layers is splitting the deployment package for a Lambda function into:

1. a function artifact with only the code in your repository (first-party sources)
2. a layer artifact with the third-party requirements that the function imports

This split means making a change to first-party sources only requires rebuilding and re-deploying the function artifact. Since this artifact doesn't need to include all of the third-party requirements, rebuilding is likely to much faster and the resulting package will be smaller. The layer will only need to be rebuilt and redeployed if the third-party dependencies change, like a version upgrade or an additional `import`.

```python project/BUILD
python_sources(name="lib")

python_aws_lambda_function(
    name="function",
    runtime="python3.8",
    handler="lambda_example.py:example_handler",
    # only include the sources, the boto3 requirement is packaged in `:layer`
    include_requirements=False,
)

python_aws_lambda_layer(
    name="layer",
    runtime="python3.8"
    # specify the handler file, and pants will automatically find its transitive dependencies
    dependencies=["./lambda_example.py"],
    # only include the boto3 requirement, any sources are packaged in `:function`
    include_sources=False,
)
```
```python project/lambda_example.py
from . import library_code

def example_handler(event, context):
    library_code.say_hi()
```
```python project/library_code.py
# an example dependency
import boto3

def say_hi():
    print("Hello AWS!")
```

Run `pants package project:layer project:function` to produce two zip files:

- `dist/project/layer.zip`: this must be published as a layer in AWS, such as through the console or using the CLI (`aws lambda publish-layer-version`).
- `dist/project/function.zip`: as [above](#step-4-upload-to-aws), this can be uploaded to AWS in various ways and the handler can be set to `lambda_function.handler`. The function will need specify that it uses the layer created above.

Advanced: Using PEX directly
----------------------------

In the rare case where you need access to PEX features, such as dynamic selection of dependencies, a PEX file created by `pex_binary` can be used as a Lambda function package directly. A PEX file is a carefully constructed zip file, and can be understood natively by AWS. Note: using `pex_binary` results in larger packages and slower cold starts and is likely to be less convenient than using `python_aws_lambda_function`.

The handler of a `pex_binary` is not re-exported at the fixed `lambda_function.handler` path, and the Lambda function handler must be configured as the `__pex__` pseudo-package followed by the handler's normal module path (for instance, if the handler is called `func` in `some/module/path.py` within [a source root](doc:source-roots), then use `__pex__.some.module.path.func`). The `__pex__` pseudo-package ensures dependencies are initialized before running any of your code.

For example:

```python project/BUILD
python_sources()

pex_binary(
    name="lambda",
    entry_point="lambda_example.py",
    # specify an appropriate platform(s) for the targeted Lambda runtime (complete_platforms works too)
    platforms=["linux_x86_64-cp39-cp39"],
)
```
```python project/lambda_example.py
def example_handler(event, context):
    print("Hello AWS!")
```

Then, use  `pants package project:lambda`, and upload the resulting `project/lambda.pex` to AWS.  The handler will need to be configured in AWS as `__pex__.lambda_example.example_handler` (assuming `project` is a [source root](doc:source-roots)).

Migrating from Pants 2.16 and earlier
-------------------------------------

Pants has implemented a new way to package Lambda functions in 2.17, which is now the default in 2.18, resulting in smaller packages and faster cold starts. This involves some changes:

- In Pants 2.16 and earlier, Pants used the [Lambdex](https://github.com/pantsbuild/lambdex) project. First, Pants would convert your code into a [Pex file](doc:pex-files) and then use Lambdex to adapt this to be better understood by AWS by adding a shim handler at the path `lambdex_handler.handler`. This shim handler first triggers the Pex initialization to choose and unzip dependencies, during the "INIT" phase.
- In Pants 2.17, the use of Lambdex was deprecated, in favour of choosing the appropriate dependencies ahead of time, as described above, without needing to do this on each cold start. This results in a zip file laid out in the format recommended by AWS, and includes a re-export of the handler at the path `lambda_function.handler`.
- In Pants 2.18, the new behaviour is now the default behaviour. Layers can now be built using Pants, and this addition includes renaming the `python_awslambda` target to `python_aws_lambda_function`.
- In Pants 2.19, the old Lambdex behaviour will be entirely removed.

When upgrading to Pants 2.18, any existing `python_awslambda` targets will need to be renamed to `python_aws_lambda_function`, which can be done via `pants update-build-files ::`. Additional changes may be required:

- If you already use Pants 2.17 and set `layout = "zip"` in the `[lambdex]` section of `pants.toml`, you already use the new behaviour: nice one! All you need to do is delete the whole `[lambdex]` section.
- If you use Pants 2.16 or earlier, or use Pants 2.17 with `layout = "lambdex"`, upgrading will change how these targets are built. To migrate, we suggest you first migrate to using `layout = "zip"` in Pants 2.17, by [following its instructions](/v2.17/docs/awslambda-python#migrating-from-pants-216-and-earlier), and upgrade to Pants 2.18 after that.

If you encounter a bug with the new behaviour, [please let us know](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/new/choose). If you require advanced PEX features, [switch to using `pex_binary` directly](#advanced-using-pex-directly).

Commit message:

Allow passing arbitrary args to PEX invocation when building FaaS artifacts (#20237)
This adds an `pex3_venv_create_extra_args` field to all FaaS targets
(`python_aws_lambda_function`, `python_aws_lambda_layer`,
`python_google_cloud_function`). This allows adding arbitrary extra
arguments that are passed to the `pex3 venv create --layout=flat-zipped
...` invocation that is used to create the final zip file.

Most acutely, this is driven by making it possible to pass the
`--collisions-ok` flag. This allows work around dependencies that are
packaged with files outside a namespaced directories, e.g. commonly a
LICENCE or README file, or `tests/` directory, since they'll have
different content. A command like `pip install ...` will happily install
them and have one of the files "win" arbitrarily, while PEX is more
correct and flags that it doesn't know what to do in that circumstance.

Fixes #20224

This is marked for cherry picking back to 2.18 because it can block
adoption of the new layout, and the old (lambdex) layout is deprecated
and using it is noisy in 2.18.

docs/markdown/Python/python-integrations/awslambda-python.md, after:

---
title: "AWS Lambda"
slug: "awslambda-python"
excerpt: "Create a Lambda with Python code."
hidden: false
createdAt: "2020-05-05T16:51:03.851Z"
---
Pants can create a Lambda-compatible zip file from your Python code, allowing you to develop your Lambda functions and layers in your repository instead of using the online Cloud9 editor.

> 📘 FYI: how Pants does this
>
> Under-the-hood, Pants uses the [PEX](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pex) project, to select the appropriate third-party requirements and first-party sources and lay them out in a zip file, in the format recommended by AWS.

Step 1: Activate the Python AWS Lambda backend
----------------------------------------------

Add this to your `pants.toml`:

```toml pants.toml
[GLOBAL]
backend_packages.add = [
  "pants.backend.awslambda.python",
  "pants.backend.python",
]
```

This adds the new `python_aws_lambda_function` target, which you can confirm by running `pants help python_aws_lambda_function`

Step 2: Define a `python_aws_lambda_function` target
----------------------------------------------------

First, add your lambda function in a Python file like you would [normally do with AWS Lambda](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/python-handler.html). Specifically, create a function `def my_handler_name(event, context)` with the name you want.

Then, in your BUILD file, make sure that you have a `python_source` or `python_sources` target with the handler file included in the `sources` field. You can use [`pants tailor ::`](doc:initial-configuration#5-generate-build-files) to automate this.

Add a `python_aws_lambda_function` target and define the `runtime` and `handler` fields. The `runtime` should be one of the values from <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/lambda-python.html>. The `handler` has the form `handler_file.py:handler_func`, which Pants will convert into a well-formed entry point. Alternatively, you can set `handler` to the format `path.to.module:handler_func`.

For example:

```python project/BUILD
# The default `sources` field will include our handler file.
python_sources(name="lib")

python_aws_lambda_function(
    name="lambda",
    runtime="python3.8",
    # Pants will convert this to `project.lambda_example:example_handler`.
    handler="lambda_example.py:example_handler",
)
```
```python project/lambda_example.py
def example_handler(event, context):
    print("Hello AWS!")
```

Pants will use [dependency inference](doc:targets) based on the `handler` field, which you can confirm by running `pants dependencies path/to:lambda`. You can also manually add to the `dependencies` field.

You can optionally set the `output_path` field to change the generated zip file's path.

> 🚧 Use `resource` instead of `file`
>
> `file` / `files` targets will not be included in the built AWS Lambda artifacts because filesystem APIs like `open()` would not load them as expected. Instead, use the `resource` and `resources` target. See [Assets and archives](doc:assets) for further explanation.

Step 3: Run `package`
---------------------

Now run `pants package` on your `python_aws_lambda_function` target to create a zipped file.

For example:

```bash
$ pants package project/:lambda
Wrote dist/project/lambda.zip
  Handler: lambda_function.handler
```

> 🚧 Running from macOS and failing to build?
>
> AWS Lambda functions must run on Linux, so Pants tells PEX and Pip to build for Linux when resolving your third party dependencies. This means that you can only use pre-built [wheels](https://packaging.python.org/glossary/#term-wheel) (bdists). If your project requires any source distributions ([sdists](https://packaging.python.org/glossary/#term-source-distribution-or-sdist)) that must be built locally, PEX and pip will fail to run.
>
> If this happens, you must either change your dependencies to only use dependencies with pre-built [wheels](https://pythonwheels.com) or find a Linux environment to run `pants package`.

> 🚧 "Encountering collisions" errors and failing to build?
>
> If a build fails with an error like `Encountered collisions populating ... from PEX at faas_repository.pex:`, listing one or more files with different `sha1` hashes, this likely means your dependencies package files in unexpected locations, outside their "scoped" directory (for instance, a package `example-pkg` typically only includes files within `example_pkg/` and `example_pkg-*.dist-info/` directories). When multiple dependencies do this, those files can have exactly matching file paths but different contents, and so it is impossible to create a Lambda artifact: which of the files should be installed and which should be ignored? Resolving this requires human intervention to understand whether any of those files are important, and hence PEX emits an error rather than making an (arbitrary) choice that may result in confusing and/or broken behaviour at runtime.
>
> Most commonly this seems to happen with metadata like a README or LICENSE file, or test files (in a `tests/` subdirectory), which are likely not important at runtime. In these cases, the collision can be worked around by adding [a `pex3_venv_create_extra_args=["--collisions-ok"]` field](doc:reference-python_aws_lambda_function#codepex3_venv_create_extra_argscode) to the `python_aws_lambda_...` targets.
>
> A better solution is to work with the dependencies to stop them from packaging files outside their scoped directories.

Step 4: Upload to AWS
---------------------

You can use any of the various AWS methods to upload your zip file, such as the AWS console or the AWS CLI via `aws lambda create-function` and `aws lambda update-function-code`.

You can specify the AWS lambda handler as `lambda_function.handler`. This is a re-export of the function referred to by the `handler` field of the target.

Docker Integration
------------------

To [deploy a Python lambda function with container images](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/python-image.html), you can use Pants's [Docker](doc:docker) support.

For example:

```dockerfile project/Dockerfile
FROM public.ecr.aws/lambda/python:3.8

RUN yum install unzip -y
COPY project/lambda.zip .
RUN unzip lambda.zip -d "${LAMBDA_TASK_ROOT}"
CMD ["lambda_function.handler"]
```
```python project/BUILD
python_sources()

python_aws_lambda_function(
    name="lambda",
    runtime="python3.8",
    handler="main.py:lambda_handler"
)

docker_image(
    name="my_image",
    dependencies = [":lambda"],
)
```

Then, use `pants package project:my_image`, for example. Pants will first build your AWS Lambda function, and then will build the Docker image and copy it into the AWS Lambda.

Building a Lambda Layer
-----------------------

[AWS Lambda layers](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/gettingstarted-concepts.html#gettingstarted-concepts-layer) allow including additional code in the execution environment of a Lambda function, without having to include that code in the function package. Using a layer can allow for including more code in a single function, sharing common dependencies across several functions, and may even give faster builds and deploys.

Pants uses the `python_aws_lambda_layer` target to build AWS Lambda layers. The contents of the layer must be specified in the `dependencies` field, and Pants will pull in all of the code that implies (transitively) as usual, including any exclusions via `!` and `!!`. The `include_sources` and `include_requirements` fields provide additional control over the contents of the layer.

For example, one use of layers is splitting the deployment package for a Lambda function into:

1. a function artifact with only the code in your repository (first-party sources)
2. a layer artifact with the third-party requirements that the function imports

This split means making a change to first-party sources only requires rebuilding and re-deploying the function artifact. Since this artifact doesn't need to include all of the third-party requirements, rebuilding is likely to much faster and the resulting package will be smaller. The layer will only need to be rebuilt and redeployed if the third-party dependencies change, like a version upgrade or an additional `import`.

```python project/BUILD
python_sources(name="lib")

python_aws_lambda_function(
    name="function",
    runtime="python3.8",
    handler="lambda_example.py:example_handler",
    # only include the sources, the boto3 requirement is packaged in `:layer`
    include_requirements=False,
)

python_aws_lambda_layer(
    name="layer",
    runtime="python3.8"
    # specify the handler file, and pants will automatically find its transitive dependencies
    dependencies=["./lambda_example.py"],
    # only include the boto3 requirement, any sources are packaged in `:function`
    include_sources=False,
)
```
```python project/lambda_example.py
from . import library_code

def example_handler(event, context):
    library_code.say_hi()
```
```python project/library_code.py
# an example dependency
import boto3

def say_hi():
    print("Hello AWS!")
```

Run `pants package project:layer project:function` to produce two zip files:

- `dist/project/layer.zip`: this must be published as a layer in AWS, such as through the console or using the CLI (`aws lambda publish-layer-version`).
- `dist/project/function.zip`: as [above](#step-4-upload-to-aws), this can be uploaded to AWS in various ways and the handler can be set to `lambda_function.handler`. The function will need specify that it uses the layer created above.

Advanced: Using PEX directly
----------------------------

In the rare case where you need access to PEX features, such as dynamic selection of dependencies, a PEX file created by `pex_binary` can be used as a Lambda function package directly. A PEX file is a carefully constructed zip file, and can be understood natively by AWS. Note: using `pex_binary` results in larger packages and slower cold starts and is likely to be less convenient than using `python_aws_lambda_function`.

The handler of a `pex_binary` is not re-exported at the fixed `lambda_function.handler` path, and the Lambda function handler must be configured as the `__pex__` pseudo-package followed by the handler's normal module path (for instance, if the handler is called `func` in `some/module/path.py` within [a source root](doc:source-roots), then use `__pex__.some.module.path.func`). The `__pex__` pseudo-package ensures dependencies are initialized before running any of your code.

For example:

```python project/BUILD
python_sources()

pex_binary(
    name="lambda",
    entry_point="lambda_example.py",
    # specify an appropriate platform(s) for the targeted Lambda runtime (complete_platforms works too)
    platforms=["linux_x86_64-cp39-cp39"],
)
```
```python project/lambda_example.py
def example_handler(event, context):
    print("Hello AWS!")
```

Then, use  `pants package project:lambda`, and upload the resulting `project/lambda.pex` to AWS.  The handler will need to be configured in AWS as `__pex__.lambda_example.example_handler` (assuming `project` is a [source root](doc:source-roots)).

Migrating from Pants 2.16 and earlier
-------------------------------------

Pants has implemented a new way to package Lambda functions in 2.17, which is now the default in 2.18, resulting in smaller packages and faster cold starts. This involves some changes:

- In Pants 2.16 and earlier, Pants used the [Lambdex](https://github.com/pantsbuild/lambdex) project. First, Pants would convert your code into a [Pex file](doc:pex-files) and then use Lambdex to adapt this to be better understood by AWS by adding a shim handler at the path `lambdex_handler.handler`. This shim handler first triggers the Pex initialization to choose and unzip dependencies, during the "INIT" phase.
- In Pants 2.17, the use of Lambdex was deprecated, in favour of choosing the appropriate dependencies ahead of time, as described above, without needing to do this on each cold start. This results in a zip file laid out in the format recommended by AWS, and includes a re-export of the handler at the path `lambda_function.handler`.
- In Pants 2.18, the new behaviour is now the default behaviour. Layers can now be built using Pants, and this addition includes renaming the `python_awslambda` target to `python_aws_lambda_function`.
- In Pants 2.19, the old Lambdex behaviour will be entirely removed.

When upgrading to Pants 2.18, any existing `python_awslambda` targets will need to be renamed to `python_aws_lambda_function`, which can be done via `pants update-build-files ::`. Additional changes may be required:

- If you already use Pants 2.17 and set `layout = "zip"` in the `[lambdex]` section of `pants.toml`, you already use the new behaviour: nice one! All you need to do is delete the whole `[lambdex]` section.
- If you use Pants 2.16 or earlier, or use Pants 2.17 with `layout = "lambdex"`, upgrading will change how these targets are built. To migrate, we suggest you first migrate to using `layout = "zip"` in Pants 2.17, by [following its instructions](/v2.17/docs/awslambda-python#migrating-from-pants-216-and-earlier), and upgrade to Pants 2.18 after that.

If you encounter a bug with the new behaviour, [please let us know](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/new/choose). If you require advanced PEX features, [switch to using `pex_binary` directly](#advanced-using-pex-directly).
