docs/markdown/Python/python-integrations/google-cloud-function-python.md, before:

---
title: "Google Cloud Functions"
slug: "google-cloud-function-python"
excerpt: "Create a Cloud Function with Python."
hidden: false
createdAt: "2021-11-09T20:29:58.330Z"
---
Pants can create a Google Cloud Function-compatible zip file from your Python code, allowing you to develop your functions in your repository.

> 📘 FYI: how Pants does this
>
> Under-the-hood, Pants uses the [PEX](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pex) project, to select the appropriate third-party requirements and first-party sources and lay them out in a zip file, in the format recommended by Google Cloud Functions.


Step 1: Activate the Python Google Cloud Function backend
---------------------------------------------------------

Add this to your `pants.toml`:

```toml pants.toml
[GLOBAL]
backend_packages.add = [
  "pants.backend.google_cloud_function.python",
  "pants.backend.python",
]
```

This adds the new `python_google_cloud_function` target, which you can confirm by running `pants help python_google_cloud_function `

Step 2: Define a `python_google_cloud_function ` target
-------------------------------------------------------

First, add your Cloud function in a Python file like you would [normally do with Google Cloud Functions](https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/first-python), such as creating a function `def my_handler_name(event, context)` for event-based functions.

Then, in your BUILD file, make sure that you have a `python_source` or `python_sources` target with the handler file included in the `sources` field. You can use [`pants tailor ::`](doc:initial-configuration#5-generate-build-files) to automate this.

Add a `python_google_cloud_function` target and define the `runtime`, `handler`, and `type` fields. The `type` should be either `"event"` or `"http"`. The `runtime` should be one of the values from <https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/concepts/python-runtime>. The `handler` has the form `handler_file.py:handler_func`, which Pants will convert into a well-formed entry point. Alternatively, you can set `handler` to the format `path.to.module:handler_func`.

For example:

```python project/BUILD
# The default `sources` field will include our handler file.
python_sources(name="lib")

python_google_cloud_function(
    name="cloud_function",
    runtime="python38",
    # Pants will convert this to `project.google_cloud_function_example:example_handler`.
    handler="google_cloud_function_example.py:example_handler",
    type="event",
)
```
```python project/google_cloud_function_example.py
def example_handler(event, context):
    print("Hello Google Cloud Function!")
```

Pants will use [dependency inference](doc:targets) based on the `handler` field, which you can confirm by running `pants dependencies path/to:cloud_function`. You can also manually add to the `dependencies` field.

You can optionally set the `output_path` field to change the generated zip file's path.

> 🚧 Use `resource` instead of `file`
>
> `file` / `files` targets will not be included in the built Cloud Function because filesystem APIs like `open()` would not load them as expected. Instead, use the `resource` / `resources` target. See [Assets and archives](doc:assets) for further explanation.

Step 3: Run `package`
---------------------

Now run `pants package` on your `python_google_cloud_function` target to create a zipped file.

For example:

```bash
$ pants package project/:cloud_function
Wrote dist/project/cloud_function.zip
  Handler: handler
```

> 🚧 Running from macOS and failing to build?
>
> Cloud Functions must run on Linux, so Pants tells PEX and Pip to build for Linux when resolving your third party dependencies. This means that you can only use pre-built [wheels](https://packaging.python.org/glossary/#term-wheel) (bdists). If your project requires any source distributions ([sdists](https://packaging.python.org/glossary/#term-source-distribution-or-sdist)) that must be built locally, PEX and pip will fail to run.
>
> If this happens, you must either change your dependencies to only use dependencies with pre-built [wheels](https://pythonwheels.com) or find a Linux environment to run `pants package`.

Step 4: Upload to Google Cloud
------------------------------

You can use any of the various Google Cloud methods to upload your zip file, such as the Google Cloud console or the [Google Cloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/deploying/filesystem#deploy_using_the_gcloud_tool).

You must specify the handler as `handler`. This is a re-export of the function referred to by the `handler` field of the target.

Advanced: Using PEX directly
----------------------------

In the rare case where you need access to PEX features, such as dynamic selection of dependencies, a PEX file created by `pex_binary` can be used as a Google Cloud Function package directly. A PEX file is a carefully constructed zip file, and can be understood natively by Google Cloud Functions. Note: using `pex_binary` results in larger packages and slower cold starts and is likely to be less convenient than using `python_google_cloud_function`.

The handler of a `pex_binary` is not re-exported at the fixed `main.handler` path, and the Google Cloud Function handler must be configured as the `__pex__` pseudo-package followed by the handler's normal module path (for instance, if the handler is in `some/module/path.py` within [a source root](doc:source-roots), then use `__pex__.some.module.path`). This may require being configured via [`GOOGLE_FUNCTION_SOURCE`](https://cloud.google.com/docs/buildpacks/service-specific-configs#google_function_source). The `__pex__` pseudo-package ensures dependencies are initialized before running any of your code.

For example:

```python project/BUILD
python_sources()

pex_binary(
    name="gcf",
    entry_point="gcf_example.py",
    # specify an appropriate platform(s) for the targeted GCF runtime (complete_platforms works too)
    platforms=["linux_x86_64-cp39-cp39"],
)
```
```python project/gcf_example.py
def example_handler(event, context):
    print("Hello GCF!")
```

Then, use  `pants package project:gcf`, and upload the resulting `project/gcf.pex` to Google Cloud Functions. You will need to specify the handler as `example_handler` and set `GOOGLE_FUNCTION_SOURCE=__pex__.gcf_example` (assuming `project` is a [source root](doc:source-roots)).

Migrating from Pants 2.16 and earlier
-------------------------------------

Pants has implemented a new way to package Google Cloud Functions in 2.17, which is now the default in 2.18, resulting in smaller packages and faster cold starts. This involves some changes:

- In Pants 2.16 and earlier, Pants used the [Lambdex](https://github.com/pantsbuild/lambdex) project. First, Pants would convert your code into a [Pex file](doc:pex-files) and then use Lambdex to adapt this to be better understood by GCF by adding a shim handler. This shim handler first triggers the Pex initialization to choose and unzip dependencies, during initialization.
- In Pants 2.17, the use of Lambdex was deprecated, in favour of choosing the appropriate dependencies ahead of time, as described above, without needing to do this on each cold start. This results in a zip file laid out in the format recommended by GCF, and includes a re-export of the handler.
- In Pants 2.18, the new behaviour is now the default behaviour.
- In Pants 2.19, the old Lambdex behaviour will be entirely removed.

When upgrading to Pants 2.18, some changes may be required:

- If you already use Pants 2.17 and set `layout = "zip"` in the `[lambdex]` section of `pants.toml`, you already use the new behaviour: nice one! All you need to do is delete the whole `[lambdex]` section.
- If you use Pants 2.16 or earlier, or use Pants 2.17 with `layout = "lambdex"`, upgrading will change how these targets are built. To migrate, we suggest you first migrate to using `layout = "zip"` in Pants 2.17, by [following its instructions](/v2.17/docs/google-cloud-function-python#migrating-from-pants-216-and-earlier), and upgrade to Pants 2.18 after that.

If you encounter a bug with the new behaviour, [please let us know](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/new/choose). If you require advanced PEX features, [switch to using `pex_binary` directly](#advanced-using-pex-directly).

Commit message:

Allow passing arbitrary args to PEX invocation when building FaaS artifacts (#20237)
This adds an `pex3_venv_create_extra_args` field to all FaaS targets
(`python_aws_lambda_function`, `python_aws_lambda_layer`,
`python_google_cloud_function`). This allows adding arbitrary extra
arguments that are passed to the `pex3 venv create --layout=flat-zipped
...` invocation that is used to create the final zip file.

Most acutely, this is driven by making it possible to pass the
`--collisions-ok` flag. This allows work around dependencies that are
packaged with files outside a namespaced directories, e.g. commonly a
LICENCE or README file, or `tests/` directory, since they'll have
different content. A command like `pip install ...` will happily install
them and have one of the files "win" arbitrarily, while PEX is more
correct and flags that it doesn't know what to do in that circumstance.

Fixes #20224

This is marked for cherry picking back to 2.18 because it can block
adoption of the new layout, and the old (lambdex) layout is deprecated
and using it is noisy in 2.18.

docs/markdown/Python/python-integrations/google-cloud-function-python.md, after:

---
title: "Google Cloud Functions"
slug: "google-cloud-function-python"
excerpt: "Create a Cloud Function with Python."
hidden: false
createdAt: "2021-11-09T20:29:58.330Z"
---
Pants can create a Google Cloud Function-compatible zip file from your Python code, allowing you to develop your functions in your repository.

> 📘 FYI: how Pants does this
>
> Under-the-hood, Pants uses the [PEX](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pex) project, to select the appropriate third-party requirements and first-party sources and lay them out in a zip file, in the format recommended by Google Cloud Functions.


Step 1: Activate the Python Google Cloud Function backend
---------------------------------------------------------

Add this to your `pants.toml`:

```toml pants.toml
[GLOBAL]
backend_packages.add = [
  "pants.backend.google_cloud_function.python",
  "pants.backend.python",
]
```

This adds the new `python_google_cloud_function` target, which you can confirm by running `pants help python_google_cloud_function `

Step 2: Define a `python_google_cloud_function ` target
-------------------------------------------------------

First, add your Cloud function in a Python file like you would [normally do with Google Cloud Functions](https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/first-python), such as creating a function `def my_handler_name(event, context)` for event-based functions.

Then, in your BUILD file, make sure that you have a `python_source` or `python_sources` target with the handler file included in the `sources` field. You can use [`pants tailor ::`](doc:initial-configuration#5-generate-build-files) to automate this.

Add a `python_google_cloud_function` target and define the `runtime`, `handler`, and `type` fields. The `type` should be either `"event"` or `"http"`. The `runtime` should be one of the values from <https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/concepts/python-runtime>. The `handler` has the form `handler_file.py:handler_func`, which Pants will convert into a well-formed entry point. Alternatively, you can set `handler` to the format `path.to.module:handler_func`.

For example:

```python project/BUILD
# The default `sources` field will include our handler file.
python_sources(name="lib")

python_google_cloud_function(
    name="cloud_function",
    runtime="python38",
    # Pants will convert this to `project.google_cloud_function_example:example_handler`.
    handler="google_cloud_function_example.py:example_handler",
    type="event",
)
```
```python project/google_cloud_function_example.py
def example_handler(event, context):
    print("Hello Google Cloud Function!")
```

Pants will use [dependency inference](doc:targets) based on the `handler` field, which you can confirm by running `pants dependencies path/to:cloud_function`. You can also manually add to the `dependencies` field.

You can optionally set the `output_path` field to change the generated zip file's path.

> 🚧 Use `resource` instead of `file`
>
> `file` / `files` targets will not be included in the built Cloud Function because filesystem APIs like `open()` would not load them as expected. Instead, use the `resource` / `resources` target. See [Assets and archives](doc:assets) for further explanation.

Step 3: Run `package`
---------------------

Now run `pants package` on your `python_google_cloud_function` target to create a zipped file.

For example:

```bash
$ pants package project/:cloud_function
Wrote dist/project/cloud_function.zip
  Handler: handler
```

> 🚧 Running from macOS and failing to build?
>
> Cloud Functions must run on Linux, so Pants tells PEX and Pip to build for Linux when resolving your third party dependencies. This means that you can only use pre-built [wheels](https://packaging.python.org/glossary/#term-wheel) (bdists). If your project requires any source distributions ([sdists](https://packaging.python.org/glossary/#term-source-distribution-or-sdist)) that must be built locally, PEX and pip will fail to run.
>
> If this happens, you must either change your dependencies to only use dependencies with pre-built [wheels](https://pythonwheels.com) or find a Linux environment to run `pants package`.

> 🚧 "Encountering collisions" errors and failing to build?
>
> If a build fails with an error like `Encountered collisions populating ... from PEX at faas_repository.pex:`, listing one or more files with different `sha1` hashes, this likely means your dependencies package files in unexpected locations, outside their "scoped" directory (for instance, a package `example-pkg` typically only includes files within `example_pkg/` and `example_pkg-*.dist-info/` directories). When multiple dependencies do this, those files can have exactly matching file paths but different contents, and so it is impossible to create a GCF artifact: which of the files should be installed and which should be ignored? Resolving this requires human intervention to understand whether any of those files are important, and hence PEX emits an error rather than making an (arbitrary) choice that may result in confusing and/or broken behaviour at runtime.
>
> Most commonly this seems to happen with metadata like a README or LICENSE file, or test files (in a `tests/` subdirectory), which are likely not important at runtime. In these cases, the collision can be worked around by adding [a `pex3_venv_create_extra_args=["--collisions-ok"]` field](doc:reference-python_google_cloud_function#codepex3_venv_create_extra_argscode) to the `python_google_cloud_function` target.
>
> A better solution is to work with the dependencies to stop them from packaging files outside their scoped directories.


Step 4: Upload to Google Cloud
------------------------------

You can use any of the various Google Cloud methods to upload your zip file, such as the Google Cloud console or the [Google Cloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/deploying/filesystem#deploy_using_the_gcloud_tool).

You must specify the handler as `handler`. This is a re-export of the function referred to by the `handler` field of the target.

Advanced: Using PEX directly
----------------------------

In the rare case where you need access to PEX features, such as dynamic selection of dependencies, a PEX file created by `pex_binary` can be used as a Google Cloud Function package directly. A PEX file is a carefully constructed zip file, and can be understood natively by Google Cloud Functions. Note: using `pex_binary` results in larger packages and slower cold starts and is likely to be less convenient than using `python_google_cloud_function`.

The handler of a `pex_binary` is not re-exported at the fixed `main.handler` path, and the Google Cloud Function handler must be configured as the `__pex__` pseudo-package followed by the handler's normal module path (for instance, if the handler is in `some/module/path.py` within [a source root](doc:source-roots), then use `__pex__.some.module.path`). This may require being configured via [`GOOGLE_FUNCTION_SOURCE`](https://cloud.google.com/docs/buildpacks/service-specific-configs#google_function_source). The `__pex__` pseudo-package ensures dependencies are initialized before running any of your code.

For example:

```python project/BUILD
python_sources()

pex_binary(
    name="gcf",
    entry_point="gcf_example.py",
    # specify an appropriate platform(s) for the targeted GCF runtime (complete_platforms works too)
    platforms=["linux_x86_64-cp39-cp39"],
)
```
```python project/gcf_example.py
def example_handler(event, context):
    print("Hello GCF!")
```

Then, use  `pants package project:gcf`, and upload the resulting `project/gcf.pex` to Google Cloud Functions. You will need to specify the handler as `example_handler` and set `GOOGLE_FUNCTION_SOURCE=__pex__.gcf_example` (assuming `project` is a [source root](doc:source-roots)).

Migrating from Pants 2.16 and earlier
-------------------------------------

Pants has implemented a new way to package Google Cloud Functions in 2.17, which is now the default in 2.18, resulting in smaller packages and faster cold starts. This involves some changes:

- In Pants 2.16 and earlier, Pants used the [Lambdex](https://github.com/pantsbuild/lambdex) project. First, Pants would convert your code into a [Pex file](doc:pex-files) and then use Lambdex to adapt this to be better understood by GCF by adding a shim handler. This shim handler first triggers the Pex initialization to choose and unzip dependencies, during initialization.
- In Pants 2.17, the use of Lambdex was deprecated, in favour of choosing the appropriate dependencies ahead of time, as described above, without needing to do this on each cold start. This results in a zip file laid out in the format recommended by GCF, and includes a re-export of the handler.
- In Pants 2.18, the new behaviour is now the default behaviour.
- In Pants 2.19, the old Lambdex behaviour will be entirely removed.

When upgrading to Pants 2.18, some changes may be required:

- If you already use Pants 2.17 and set `layout = "zip"` in the `[lambdex]` section of `pants.toml`, you already use the new behaviour: nice one! All you need to do is delete the whole `[lambdex]` section.
- If you use Pants 2.16 or earlier, or use Pants 2.17 with `layout = "lambdex"`, upgrading will change how these targets are built. To migrate, we suggest you first migrate to using `layout = "zip"` in Pants 2.17, by [following its instructions](/v2.17/docs/google-cloud-function-python#migrating-from-pants-216-and-earlier), and upgrade to Pants 2.18 after that.

If you encounter a bug with the new behaviour, [please let us know](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/new/choose). If you require advanced PEX features, [switch to using `pex_binary` directly](#advanced-using-pex-directly).
