---
title: "shell_sources"
slug: "reference-shell_sources"
hidden: false
createdAt: "2022-06-02T21:10:59.756Z"
updatedAt: "2022-06-02T21:11:00.340Z"
---
Generate a `shell_source` target for each file in the `sources` field.

Backend: <span style="color: purple"><code>pants.backend.shell</code></span>

## <code>dependencies</code>

<span style="color: purple">type: <code>Iterable[str] | None</code></span>
<span style="color: green">default: <code>None</code></span>

Addresses to other targets that this target depends on, e.g. ['helloworld/subdir:lib', 'helloworld/main.py:lib', '3rdparty:reqs#django'].

This augments any dependencies inferred by Pants, such as by analyzing your imports. Use `./pants dependencies` or `./pants peek` on this target to get the final result.

See [Targets and BUILD files](doc:targets)#target-addresses and [Targets and BUILD files](doc:targets)#target-generation for more about how addresses are formed, including for generated targets. You can also run `./pants list ::` to find all addresses in your project, or `./pants list dir:` to find all addresses defined in that directory.

If the target is in the same BUILD file, you can leave off the BUILD file path, e.g. `:tgt` instead of `helloworld/subdir:tgt`. For generated first-party addresses, use `./` for the file path, e.g. `./main.py:tgt`; for all other generated targets, use `:tgt#generated_name`.

You may exclude dependencies by prefixing with `!`, e.g. `['!helloworld/subdir:lib', '!./sibling.txt']`. Ignores are intended for false positives with dependency inference; otherwise, simply leave off the dependency from the BUILD file.

## <code>description</code>

<span style="color: purple">type: <code>str | None</code></span>
<span style="color: green">default: <code>None</code></span>

A human-readable description of the target.

Use `./pants list --documented ::` to see all targets with descriptions.

## <code>overrides</code>

<span style="color: purple">type: <code>Dict[Union[str, Tuple[str, ...]], Dict[str, Any]] | None</code></span>
<span style="color: green">default: <code>None</code></span>

Override the field values for generated `shell_source` targets.

Expects a dictionary of relative file paths and globs to a dictionary for the overrides. You may either use a string for a single path / glob, or a string tuple for multiple paths / globs. Each override is a dictionary of field names to the overridden value.

For example:

```
overrides={
  "foo.sh": {"skip_shellcheck": True]},
  "bar.sh": {"skip_shfmt": True]},
  ("foo.sh", "bar.sh"): {"tags": ["linter_disabled"]},
}
```

File paths and globs are relative to the BUILD file's directory. Every overridden file is validated to belong to this target's `sources` field.

If you'd like to override a field's value for every `shell_source` target generated by this target, change the field directly on this target rather than using the `overrides` field.

You can specify the same file name in multiple keys, so long as you don't override the same field more than one time for the file.

## <code>skip_shellcheck</code>

<span style="color: purple">type: <code>bool</code></span>
<span style="color: green">default: <code>False</code></span>
backend: <span style="color: green"><code>pants.backend.shell.lint.shellcheck</code></span>

If true, don't run Shellcheck on this target's code.

## <code>skip_shfmt</code>

<span style="color: purple">type: <code>bool</code></span>
<span style="color: green">default: <code>False</code></span>
backend: <span style="color: green"><code>pants.backend.shell.lint.shfmt</code></span>

If true, don't run shfmt on this target's code.

## <code>sources</code>

<span style="color: purple">type: <code>Iterable[str] | None</code></span>
<span style="color: green">default: <code>(&#x27;&ast;.sh&#x27;, &#x27;!&ast;&lowbar;test.sh&#x27;, &#x27;!test&lowbar;&ast;.sh&#x27;, &#x27;!tests.sh&#x27;)</code></span>

A list of files and globs that belong to this target.

Paths are relative to the BUILD file's directory. You can ignore files/globs by prefixing them with `!`.

Example: `sources=['example.ext', 'test_*.ext', '!test_ignore.ext']`.

## <code>tags</code>

<span style="color: purple">type: <code>Iterable[str] | None</code></span>
<span style="color: green">default: <code>None</code></span>

Arbitrary strings to describe a target.

For example, you may tag some test targets with 'integration_test' so that you could run `./pants --tag='integration_test' test ::` to only run on targets with that tag.