# The Runtime Graph

## Overview

Pants' runtime [Graph](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/blob/01372719f7e6f2a3aa0b9f3ce6909991388071ca/src/rust/engine/graph/src/lib.rs#L547-L572) contains [Node](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/blob/01372719f7e6f2a3aa0b9f3ce6909991388071ca/src/rust/engine/graph/src/node.rs#L18-L36)s that represent memoized user logic and have a known output type. Edges between `Node`s represent data dependencies, which allow `Node`s to be invalidated when their inputs have changed.

## Nodes

The `Graph` trait is generic for testing purposes, but in Pants' production usage, the `Node` trait [is implemented for](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/blob/01372719f7e6f2a3aa0b9f3ce6909991388071ca/src/rust/engine/src/nodes.rs#L1132-L1139) `@rule`s and intrinsics (essentially, `@rule`s implemented in Rust). The `Node` is a single generic parameter, and so from the `Graph`'s perspective, all `Node` instances are identical: the production usage implements `Node` [using an enum](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/blob/01372719f7e6f2a3aa0b9f3ce6909991388071ca/src/rust/engine/src/nodes.rs#L1030-L1044) in order to isolate data and logic used for different purposes (running `@rule`s, running intrinsics, etc).

### Inputs and Identity

The `Node` trait requires both `Eq` and `Hash`, so a `Node` is its own memoization key and "identity". When an instance of a `Node` runs (via its [`run` method](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/blob/01372719f7e6f2a3aa0b9f3ce6909991388071ca/src/rust/engine/graph/src/node.rs#L30)), it has two sources of information that it can consume: its own fields/identity, and a [`NodeContext` object](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/blob/01372719f7e6f2a3aa0b9f3ce6909991388071ca/src/rust/engine/graph/src/node.rs#L66-L117) which allows it to request the values of other `Node`s and access any other information which should not contribute to the `Node`'s identity.

For example: the [`Node` implementation for a `@rule`](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/blob/01372719f7e6f2a3aa0b9f3ce6909991388071ca/src/rust/engine/src/nodes.rs#L936-L996) (called "Task" for historical reasons) holds information that uniquely identifies that instance of the `@rule`: the `Task` struct differentiates it from other `@rule` definitions, and the `Params` (the inputs that will be used to compute its positional arguments and `Get`s) differentiate it from other instances of the same `@rule` definition.

It's important to differentiate the "identity" of a node from its current value, because the `Graph` has optimizations for the case of re-running an existing node with potentially changed inputs. Requesting a brand new `Node` (perhaps with changed `Params`, as in the example above) will always run the logic in that `Node`. On the other hand, re-requesting an existing `Node` might be able to skip re-running the `Node`'s logic if its inputs have not changed. See the "Dirtying and Cleaning" section for more information on those optimizations.

### Execution

When an external caller requests the output for a `Node` (via [get](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/blob/01372719f7e6f2a3aa0b9f3ce6909991388071ca/src/rust/engine/graph/src/lib.rs#L689-L704)), the `Graph` does a `HashMap` lookup for the `Node` to locate an `Entry` object for that node. The `Entry` object stores the current state of the node, including whether it is [`NotStarted`, `Running`, or `Completed`](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/blob/01372719f7e6f2a3aa0b9f3ce6909991388071ca/src/rust/engine/graph/src/entry.rs#L153-L191). To get the value of a `Node`, `Graph::get` calls [Entry::get_node_result](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/blob/01372719f7e6f2a3aa0b9f3ce6909991388071ca/src/rust/engine/graph/src/entry.rs#L361-L374).

In the simplest case, if the `Node` is already `Completed`, the `Graph` immediately returns the `Node`'s result value from the `Entry`. If the `Node` is currently `Running`, the caller will be added as a waiter on the `Entry`, and pushed a value when it is ready. Finally, if the `Node` is `NotStarted`, its `run` method is launched (concurrently on a `tokio` task) and the `Entry` moves to the `Running` state.

Continuing the example above: the `Node` implementation for a `@rule` uses information (pre-computed by the `RuleGraph`) about the `@rule`'s signature to [request the values of `Node`s for the positional arguments of the `@rule`](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/blob/01372719f7e6f2a3aa0b9f3ce6909991388071ca/src/rust/engine/src/nodes.rs#L941-L966), and then runs the `@rule` function. If the result of running the `@rule` is a generator value, the `Node` then continues running to request more `Node` values for `Get`s: otherwise it completes with the result value.

## Invalidation

When a `Node` requests the value of another `Node`, it does so via `NodeContext::get` ([implemented for the `Context` struct](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/blob/01372719f7e6f2a3aa0b9f3ce6909991388071ca/src/rust/engine/src/context.rs#L418-L456) in production usage), which ends up calling `Graph::get`. Unlike an external caller, when a `Node` requests another `Node`, an edge is created in the `Graph` to record the dependency between the two `Node` instances. This tracking is used to implement invalidation of `Node`s.

At any point (perhaps concurrently with `Node`s running), external threads may call [Graph::invalidate_from_roots](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/blob/01372719f7e6f2a3aa0b9f3ce6909991388071ca/src/rust/engine/graph/src/lib.rs#L401-L407) to indicate that the result values of particular `Node` instances are no longer valid for some reason. Because the identity of a `Node` is immutable (see the "Inputs and Identity" section above), invalidation almost always needs to occur because some information that the `Node` fetched using the `Context` (or direct use of syscalls, etc) is no longer valid. In production usage, invalidation occurs due to filesystem changes: a file watching thread [calls invalidate_from_roots](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/blob/01372719f7e6f2a3aa0b9f3ce6909991388071ca/src/rust/engine/src/context.rs#L351-L362) for `Node` types that are associated with syscalls to read files when it suspects that files on disk have changed.

Confusingly, "root" in the context of `invalidate_from_roots` means a root in the dependent graph: calling the method for a root `Node` will "clear" the value of that `Node`, and mark the transitive dependents of that `Node` "dirty". No `Node`s are ever deleted from the `Graph`, so "clearing" a `Node` means moving its `Entry` to the `NotStarted` state. Because it will be in the `NotStarted` state, the cleared `Node` will definitely re-run when it is next requested, but any dirty `Node`s that might depend on it will only re-run if they cannot be "cleaned": see below.

### Dirtying and Cleaning

When the `Entry` for a `Node` is marked dirty by "Invalidation" (see above) we only _suspect_ that it might need to re-run, because one of its dependencies has been cleared. To determine whether it _actually_ needs to re-run, the next time the dirty `Node` is requested, `Graph::get` (via [`Entry::get_node_result`](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/blob/01372719f7e6f2a3aa0b9f3ce6909991388071ca/src/rust/engine/graph/src/entry.rs#L361-L374)) will compare the [`Generation` values](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/blob/01372719f7e6f2a3aa0b9f3ce6909991388071ca/src/rust/engine/graph/src/entry.rs#L37-L57) of the dependencies used to compute the previous value of the `Node` with their current `Generation` values. If none of the (`Generation` values) of the `Node` have changed, then it does not need to re-run: this is called "cleaning" or "early cutoff" (in [Build Systems à la Carte](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/uploads/prod/2018/03/build-systems.pdf)).

When a `Node` _does_ need to re-run for some reason (either due to having been cleared by invalidation, or being marked dirty and then failing to be cleaned), its previous and new result are compared to determine whether its `Generation` value should increment. The `Generation` value avoids the need to keep multiple copies of a `Node`'s result value in memory over time, and makes cleaning cheaper by converting potentially expensive equality checks into integer comparisons.

### Uncacheable Nodes

`Node`s can be marked "uncacheable" ([via](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/blob/01372719f7e6f2a3aa0b9f3ce6909991388071ca/src/rust/engine/graph/src/node.rs#L32-L35)), which causes them to re-run once per "session" (controlled by a [RunId](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/blob/01372719f7e6f2a3aa0b9f3ce6909991388071ca/src/rust/engine/graph/src/node.rs#L97-L101) on the Context), regardless of whether any of their inputs have changed. In production usage, a session always corresponds to a single run of Pants (or each iteration of a `--loop`), regardless of whether `pantsd` is in use.

A `Node` that is uncacheable is given an [`Uncacheable` `EntryState`](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/blob/01372719f7e6f2a3aa0b9f3ce6909991388071ca/src/rust/engine/graph/src/entry.rs#L70-L72), which records which `RunId` it is valid for. When the value of an uncacheable `Node` is requested, the current `RunId` is compared to the `RunId` on the `Node`'s `EntryState`, and the `Node` re-runs if it mismatches.

Uncacheable `Node`s may have dependents, but in order to ensure that the uncacheable `Node` is always detected below them in the `Graph`, any cacheable `Node`s that transitively depend on uncacheable `Node`s complete in a different EntryState: `[UncacheableDependencies`](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/blob/01372719f7e6f2a3aa0b9f3ce6909991388071ca/src/rust/engine/graph/src/entry.rs#L73-L77). An `UncacheableDependencies` node for a mismatched `RunId` acts just like the `Dirty` state: the value it holds cannot be directly consumed until it is cleaned (or until it re-runs because its dependencies have changed). An `UncacheableDependencies` node is cleaned by updating its `RunId`.

As an example: if there is a cacheable `Node` `A` that depends on an uncacheable `Node` `B`, and both of them ran in some session, then they will be in the states `UncacheableDependencies` and `Uncacheable`, respectively. If a caller requests `A` in a new session, the `Graph` will observe the `UncacheableDependencies` state has a mismatched `SessonId`, and will attempt to clean `A` by checking that its dependencies have not changed. That check will recursively inspect `B` to see whether it has changed, and will unconditionally re-run `B` because it is in the `Uncacheable` state for a mismatched `RunId`. Just like in "Dirtying and Cleaning", if `B` returns the same value as it did in the first session, then its `Generation` will not change: `A` will observe that the `Generation` values of its dependencies have not changed, and will be cleaned with its previous value without re-running. But unlike a `Node` in the `Dirty` state, `A` will stay in the `UncacheableDependencies` state: only its `RunId` changes.
